Speaker 1  00:00
I do not let a business broker stand in the way of your dreams of buying a business. So I have been acquiring businesses for years now, and what I have learned is that there's a huge difference in a good business broker and a bad business broker. Although I have not had to use a buyer's broker because I understand the process. I've been doing this for a while. I don't need their help. I have had to on the other side battle sellers, brokers, and go round and round when it comes to getting, you know, financials at the beginning, I don't want to give you the information to begin with, and then during the negotiation process, they can stand in the way of a good deal and be an obstacle to the overall deal getting done. I understand that they're trying to get the best price for their client, but at the same time, they also try to get bidding wars between buyers. They artificially inflate the price, and they can just overall stand in the way of a good deal getting done, a mutually good deal getting done. And on this platform and many others, there are business brokers that are making the claim that it is impossible to use an SBA loan to get an absentee business. I have been doing that for years. I own multiple absentee businesses that I used an SBA loan to acquire. So don't let a business broker discourage you from your dreams of getting semi passive income through business acquisition. Many of these brokers have never even owned a business in a lot of states. All you have to be is a real estate broker, and then take a couple extra classes, and then you're a business broker. So don't let someone like that stand in your way. You can absolutely do this. And if you want to learn how I did it. You want to learn how I continue to do it and teach other people to do it. Click the link in my bio. Join the money Language Academy. I'll show you exactly how to do it. I don't charge for a course. It's not some big, expensive thing. I'm on this platform to help people because I know exactly what it's like to be looking for financial freedom, to be looking for a different life for you and your family and somebody is trying to juice you for a bunch of money for a course, that is not what we do. It's $1 a day. That's it. It will never be anymore.
