Speaker 1  00:00
Hey everybody, Shane here, and this is my 2017 Chevrolet Colorado. In this series of videos, what I want to do is kind of show you where this project truck started and all the steps that it took to get it where it's at. Now hopefully you can learn what will work for your truck and maybe what won't work for your truck, but either way, we're gonna have a good time and we're gonna do a little work to a Chevrolet Colorado, give it to me.

Unknown Speaker  00:33
So let's start with the particulars of this truck. It's a 2017

Speaker 1  00:38
it has about 17,000 miles on it. It's an LTV six. It's the extended cab. It's not the crew cab. I like the extended cab trucks. I think the crew cabs are a little bit too long, and they tend to look like station wagons with a truck bed on the back. And you know, it's just me and my wife, so we don't have to worry about getting anybody in the back of that truck, except for maybe a dog. So we're good there. The truck is pretty much stock, with the exception of some window tinting and that Weather Tech tonneau cover you see there, and then the I just recently put on the Tiger Nerf Bars, the tubular design. I really like those. They were very affordable from Amazon, and I think they look really good. So the idea here is to put a six inch Rough Country lift on it. Going to put some 30 threes and some fuel wheels, get this thing nice and jacked up and in the air, as obnoxious as possible. I'm going to put a new custom grill that I had painted. I like this style, the bison style, so that's what we're going to go with. And yeah, I just want to kind of show you where this truck was, and going to show you what happened to it, and kind of the whole process of what went on, so you can make the decision if you have a canyon or a Colorado of your own, and you can kind of figure out what you want to do with your truck. But I really do love this truck. It gets great gas mileage, it's comfortable, it's easy to drive. I think it's a great looking truck, and I can't wait to get this build started and to get this truck to the next level. Let's go. So like I said, Before, I wanted the bison style grill. So I went around, I looked at all these different places, and I settled on a very affordable version from Ebay. I wasn't really sure what to expect, but it was great. It came in. It was in great shape. It was exactly the look I wanted. The fitment is perfect. And so what I wanted was to get rid of that whole gold bow tie thing, and I wanted to say Chevrolet in the front, like the newer style trucks, but I wanted it to be just a little bit different. I didn't want the whole thing to be solid. I wanted the Chevrolet to pop and have it more like a nameplate. And I think this grill is really cool, because you can take that nameplate off, and I could actually have another one made that could say anything, you know, if I wanted it to say Colorado or something cool like that, I could do that. And I really like this grill, and it was a great surprise at the price point.

Unknown Speaker  03:42
Oh, yeah, the wheels.

Speaker 1  03:44
The wheels were so much fun to pick out. You're a little bit limited by the lug pattern. It's a six by 120 design, and I wanted a 20 inch wheel. I knew that for sure. I wasn't sure about the width I was going to initially go really wide, like a 12 inch wide wheel, but because I'm limited in my ability to do this stuff, I knew I wasn't going to put the lift kit on myself. It's just I don't have the time or the space in my garage to try to do that. So I went to four wheel parts here in Jefferson City, Missouri, and I talked to a guy named Jake there, and Jake, pretty much, is the one that helps people design their trucks. And we settled on a 20 by nine and a one inch offset. And I think it's, it's going to work out really great, because I don't, I don't want the wheels to hang out and be really wide and, you know, the wider wheel, the less gas mileage, the more how and the more expensive the tires and wheels are and everything. It's like, I, I don't need that. This. Truck is gonna just be driving me back and forth to shop and just drive around town. I mean, I'll be in some mud every now and then, but for the most part, it's just a truck I want to look good and drive around town in. So these off road stroke wheels by fuel I think are really cool, because I wanted something with a little pop of red, and the red on these wheels kind of looks like, I think, a little bit like flames. And I was like, Yeah, I'll try that. I haven't seen a truck with wheels like that. So that's what I went with, and we'll see what happens.

Unknown Speaker  05:42
Now we're into the serious modifications the lift.

Speaker 1  05:47
I did a lot of research on the lift, and I settled on Rough Country, six inch lift from everything that I gathered, I think maybe rough country had a bad patch for a while, but they've gotten over a lot of the maybe quality issues that they had, and they seem reliable. And I talked to my guy, Jake, and, you know, they put a ton of them in at four wheel parts, and they don't have any problems with them. You know, if I was going to be doing some hardcore like rock climbing and, you know, in the mud all the time. I might go for a more expensive one, but I wanted a good driving experience and something that's reliable and that just won't, you know, break the bank, essentially. So, yeah, this is a huge modification for the truck, and I can't wait to see

Unknown Speaker  06:41
this thing lifted.

Speaker 1  06:49
And finally, and another cool part is the tires. I've had some tires in the past like super swampers, where, you know, they sound like a jet engine when you're going down the highway, because they're so loud where the rubber meets the road. And although that's cool for a while, and they don't handle great on the road, and it's just not very practical. So I wanted an all terrain tire that had an aggressive look, but at the same time, was practical enough to where I could hear myself think when I'm going down the highway, I'm going to do some traveling at times, and I'm gonna have to deal with that. And also, you know, gas mileage and how long they're gonna last. I wanted someone's gonna last, you know, 50,000 miles or so, and so I settled on the Falcon wild peaks. They have kind of that look. What I liked about them is they have a little bit of tread on the side, so they have a good side view as well. So those are the ones, and we are About ready to unveil this thing. You them,
