Speaker 1  00:00
Hey, have you ever wondered how these gurus that talk about all these real estate riches and small business acquisition riches, how they're able to do that and post 10 times a day, do all these interviews, do all this stuff, and they're not actually running their companies? Well, I'll tell you how they're able to do it is because they're not doing it. You. It. They are in the business of selling courses. They are in the business of getting folks just like you and me to buy their course and sign on to their program. But that's how they're making their money. It's not through the businesses they bought. It's not through the businesses that they run. It's not through the real estate that they own. It's through courses and selling mentorships and all that stuff. And frankly, I'm tired of it. Three years ago, I went on a journey to find financial freedom, and all I found was people that were trying to sell me courses for 1000s and 1000s of dollars. So I learned on my own. I went out there, and I've been grinding and grinding and grinding, and in three years, I went from completely broke to financially free. And I did it through small business acquisition, by buying recession resistant, cash flowing businesses from baby boomers who are retiring, putting my team in place there, and then I spend about an hour a week managing that business. So if you'd like to learn how to do that without spending 1000s of dollars for a course like and follow, join my community, and you get all of my resources. It's $1 a day. That's it. You. I will never sell a course. There are no additional charges. We have in house funding teams. We have credit repair teams. We have everything that you need to learn how to go from wherever you're at to financially free through business acquisition. It's the same process that I've been doing again and again and again over the last three years that allowed me to buy two houses for investment properties to go on vacation whenever I want to, to not worry about my future, my family's future. And you can do the same thing without paying these gurus for expensive courses. So what I want to do is build a community of people who are ready to take action, who are ready to buy a business, who are ready to, you know, jump in to real estate, you know, with with both feet that aren't just sitting around dreaming, that are actually going to do it. So that's what the community is about. It's about scaling, you know, through numbers and power in numbers. So if you join up for the community, you get 5050, plus of my resources, my analyzation templates, my lenders list, the 800 sites that you can find businesses for sale on all the documents to create your own LLC, so many I get books lectures. Every Thursday, I do a live class where we go from topic to topic with rotates. And then we do a mentorship where anyone can ask questions. I'll stay there for as long as it takes to answer those questions, about business acquisition, about credit, about funding, whatever it is that you got that you're trying to figure out. As far as personal finance goes, we will figure it out. So if you're interested in that, and you're tired of these gurus that are just squeezing you for every dime, join the community. It's $1 a day. You can see that there are multiple people that are already in there. They're loving it. They're buying businesses, they're getting funding, they're fixing their credit. They're looking for businesses.

Unknown Speaker  03:39
You can join those ranks. You.
