Speaker 1  00:00
You've been looking into buying a business and you don't want to pay for an expensive mentorship or some kind of a course, I can help you. And here's proof,

Speaker 2  00:12
just because we could break it all down. And that also helped with speaking with the banker, because you can get all those terms that they love, like the DSCR and things like that. And he's like, oh, you know what that is? And I was like, I just learned. But I get they love the confidence, because when we showed the projections, your projections are exactly what they want to see. So you definitely hit the nail on the head when it came down to that. Whenever I was I basically just read, you know, whatever you gave us. So I read right off. And this is the cost of the business. I've already estimated. This is what I'm going to pay it off. Because, you know, when you click, like, when you click like the Loan Summary and stuff, I broke it down really easy for him, and he's like, dang, you made my job easy because you just had it all.

Speaker 1  00:50
That is a success story from a member of the money Language Academy. And they were able to learn how to find a business, to evaluate that business and then to get SBA funding in order to actually land that business. So if you are looking to learn how to do the same thing, and you don't want to pay 1000s of dollars for an expensive mentorship, click the link in my bio, sign up for the money Language Academy and you can learn how to do exactly that same thing. I've been doing it for the last three years, and it has completely changed my life. I've been buying cash flow producing recession resistant, boring businesses that I set up management in, and I run them remotely. It takes me about an hour a week to keep these businesses going, and that passive income has completely transformed my life, and anyone out there can do the same thing. So why pay 1000s of dollars the money Language Academy is $1 a day, $1 a day. You get access to me. You get access to my system. You get access to all of my resources, that includes 800 different websites that you can use to find a business, the analyzing tools, the lender list, everything that you need to take you from learning how to do this to actually executing and buying a business. So the only thing that's stopping you right now is you, you.
