Speaker 1  00:01
To level up. You are exactly right. So my latest acquisition, I promised everybody that I would go through the numbers and how I found this business, and basically, you know, the whole process. So here is that information. I found this business on biz, buy, sell.com, it had very little information. Obviously, the listing is no longer active, so this is an example of what it looked like. So it said, you know, established auto repair shop Missouri. It did not say what city. It didn't say the cash flow. It basically said nothing. So all it had was the price right here, which the price for it was 550,000 I reached out to the broker, and I said, hey, I'm interested in possibly acquiring this business in the next 90 to 180 days. I would like to learn more about it. I'm an established buyer and a business owner. So they sent me an NDA, which is pretty standard. I signed the NDA, and I requested three years of profit and loss statements, three years of tax returns, and then the current profit and loss, like current year to date statement, which is the profit and loss from January 1 to today. So I was going through the finances from for this business, and I learned that it's really two businesses in one it's an auto repair store, excuse me, an auto repair shop on one side, and it's a parts store on the other side. So it's kind of a strange dynamic. They have a large inventory of parts. So I thought, Okay, I'm not really interested in a parts store. Auto repairs. Kind of my jam. So I started looking through the financials, and I saw that that the cash flow was in the 190s and I thought, okay, that's, that's right there in my wheelhouse as far if you, if you know me, you know my systems, like those numbers work. So I thought, Okay, let's see if I can split the financials and see what just the auto repair does. So it looked like the auto repair was doing close to 100 per year. That's seller discretionary earnings. And I thought, Okay, well, I will do an LOI, and I'll try to negotiate to an LOI letter of intent. So you fill out a letter of intent, you both sign it. It's a non binding agreement that says, hey, I'm interested in taking, you know, the next step with this purchase. Don't shop it around anywhere I'm going to need to see everything, blah, blah, blah. So I did that, and I started negotiating for just the auto repair portion. And we came up with a deal. We'd split everything in half. I would buy the auto repair portion for 275, and then we made a deal where the current owner would sell me those parts for 20% markup, and then I would then sell them for another 20% markup, because the margin anyway was about 40% so we were basically splitting the profit on parts, but I didn't have to buy a bunch of inventory that I didn't want. So I closed on that business on June 20. It's great. The employees are great. The business itself is great. It's, it's, it's been really awesome. It's been a great opportunity. It's doing well. I wanted to expedite the process to be able to let the previous owner retire like he wants to do. So we came up with a deal recently where they would sell or finance the inventory to me, and I would be able to take over the entire business, both the parts and the repair So currently I'm occupying 7500 square feet for the auto repair shop, which is nine lifts, you know, all the furniture, fixtures and equipment, and the other 2500 square feet is the inventory. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to slim down that inventory and expand the auto repair shop into that section of the building. So it's at a great time, because these are European car parts. So on August 1 the tariffs go into effect is 30% tariffs. That means that those European Auto Parts are going to, all you know, automatically be worth 30% more because that's the market price for them. So that's kind of where I'm at. Now. We should close on those parts next week, and I will keep you posted on that process too, but it's been really great. And I just want everybody to know that I found this business on bizbuysell.com people say you can't find anything listed online. You can. I reached out to a broker. He got back to me. The process was great. I closed on the business. It's making good money. The employees are fantastic. The general manager is fantastic. It's been a really great experience. So if this is something that you've, even, you know, thought about and thought, wow, you know, I'd like to own a business, but I have no idea how to buy one. You have to have a ton of money. None of those things are true. Anyone can do this. And I can tell you from experience, I've started business. And I bought them, it is way easier to buy a business than it is to start one from scratch. So I own multiple businesses. They're absentee. I don't have to be there every single day, and doing that has completely changed my life and my family's life. I used to think it was real estate that was the way that I was going to find financial freedom, but when I switched to buying small businesses like this, being sold by a baby boomer who's ready to retire, good, solid, strong businesses, it has completely changed our life. So if you'd like to learn how to do this, click the link in my bio, like and follow go to the website, the money Language Academy. Look at all the free resources, watch the videos. See if this is something that you're interested in, and join in the community. And I'll teach you how to do exactly the same thing. Do.
