Speaker 1  00:00
I'm going to say something controversial when it comes to personal finance and financial freedom, and that is, you need to spend your money. And I know that Dave Ramsey would have you believe that you need to have a large savings account for an emergency fund in case something bad happens. No, you don't need that. What you need to do is you need to spend that money on investment that returns more money. There's no need to have a large emergency fund sitting in a bank that's going to collect about half a percent interest, or at best, 4% where you can actually put it out into the world and at least get 10, if not 2030, 4050, 100% and that is possible with cash flowing assets like a lucrative business. So if you're worried about something bad happening, you need a bunch of money in case something bad happens. That's misplaced. You can get capital when something bad happens. There are plenty of credit cards out there that you can get into with 18 month grace period, where you don't have to pay interest for 18 months, you can carry just about any kind of bad thing. It will happen. Instead, put that money into something that's going to bring you back. Don't sit on top of it like Ebenezer Scrooge, thinking that in case something bad happens, I'll be safe. Yeah, you know, you might be safe, but you're not going to be wealthy if you do this. Be an investor, not a saver. The first rule of investing is to get rid of your money. I don't have savings. What I do have is cash that's waiting to be deployed on the next asset. I'll deploy that cash. I'll build up more cash, and I'll deploy it. That's the difference, and I will leverage every bit of it, because that's the key to wealth. Don't be afraid of leverage. Don't sit on large cash stores for no reason just because you're afraid something might happen. You need to deploy it. So if you want to learn these techniques, you want to learn how to buy a cash flowing business. You want to learn how to acquire real estate and the real story behind real estate and what can be done. Like and follow. Join my lives and stay tuned for my community. You.
