Speaker 1  00:01
I'm very excited to announce that another member of the money Language Academy has closed on a business. So without further ado, I'll stop yapping and let them tell you about the process, just

Unknown Speaker  00:12
just for the laundromat, not for the building. So it's $325,000

Speaker 2  00:18
the cash flow on it was $125,000 a year. So the money, the percentages, looked really good. So the next day, they went ahead and put an offer in. Within 24 hours, she accepted the offer. We went under due diligence. We closed on Saturday. We've already received multiple deposits in the bank account. So the bank account's going up. We just got he just did our first cash deposit today. It was like, $3,033.50 or something. So that was super exciting. So we are officially six days in. So Saturday at 12:01am, it'll be full week of having it. So Shane is like, everything you said. Just spoke to me, and I was like, damn. I was like, it opened my mind to more possibilities, I think, where maybe, like, we came from the Hard Knocks of like, No, we have to build it from the ground up. I'm like, gonna tell Shane Thank you, because He inspired me.

Speaker 1  01:12
This is what makes it all worth it. So Eleni found this deal. She followed the system, she put in a competitive offer, and now she's running this business. She's reaping the rewards of all of that work. So I am immensely proud of her and the rest of the people in the money Language Academy who are in the weeds. They're doing this, they're learning the process, and they're actually making this happen. So there are some people out there that are trying to teach these systems and they don't actually do it. We are doing this. We're making it happen. And you don't have to spend a bunch of money on a course to do it. Anyone can do this. You just have to be willing to put in the time, put in the effort, and finally, make it happen. So if you want to learn how to do this and find the same success that Eleni has found. Click the link in my bio, join the money Language Academy. I'll teach you how to do it too. You.
