Speaker 1  00:00
I easily get this question five to 10 times a day. You know, people reach out to me and they ask me, do you do mentorship? Do you do coaching? They've been watching my posts, and, you know, they're, they're trying to, basically, you know, do similar things to what I've been doing the last few years. And I, I wish I could, I wish I had the time to devote to a more one on one type system to help people, but I have a extremely busy schedule, and, you know, I don't believe in charging people this big, huge amount of money for courses and all that stuff. I think it's very unfair and predatory to where people are just trying to change their lives and want something better for their families. So my solution to not having the time to help people one on one is I started a community, and if anybody is interested in doing the same things that I've been doing for the last few years, the same things that took me from broke to wealthy in three years by buying cash flowing businesses that are boring, businesses that people don't think about, and being able to systematize those in a way where I spend about an hour a week managing those businesses, and the cash flow that that generates has completely transformed my life. So if that's something that you're interested in, I have a community. It's $1 a day, you know? That's you get everything. If you want to join the community, you get access to me. I every single Thursday night, I carve out the entire evening to teach a class, have a lecture, and then have a Q and A afterwards, anybody can ask questions. I will stay there until three in the morning if I have to to get to everybody. So that's been that's my solution, right there, where I can reach more people at one time, because there's just no way that I can do the one on one mentorship. So if you're interested in that, click the link in my bio. Join the community. Like I said, it's $1 a day, and as soon as you sign up, you get all of my resources, every document, every template, every analyzing tool, everything that I have is yours, and I don't care what you do it, do with it. You can sell it. You can whatever. I don't care. I just I don't believe in charging people for this stuff. So if you want to change your life, if you want to learn to do the things that I've been able to do, then like and follow, click the Pope, the link in my bio, join the community. We'd love to have you.
