Speaker 1  00:01
Hey everybody, it's Shane again, talking all things money and learning how to speak money. Today, I want to talk a little bit about just general investing. There's so many options. It can be overwhelming. You have a little bit of money, or you want to put money aside every month to some sort of investment for your future. What do you do? There's a lot of different schools of thought, you know, and it really depends on how risk averse you are, the higher the risk, the higher the potential reward. If you're at a place where you have a lot of expendable income that you can throw money around, and it's not really going to negatively affect you that much, then you can juice the risk. You can put more money into things like crypto, which and let me say this about crypto, guys, I am a software engineer. I work in the blockchain sector. Anybody that tells you they know what's going to happen with crypto is flat out lying or delusional. Nobody knows. Nobody knows. I can tell I can right now go and deploy a coin and market it and get on here and tell you it's going to do this. It's going to do that. I don't know. I don't know. There are a lot of platforms out there. Blockchains and coins that are are great. They they make a lot of sense. They have utility, they have a use, and they don't ever take off. And there are coins out there that don't do anything, that have no use whatsoever, what you know, meme coins, and those things take off because it's got a picture of Pepe or something like that, and a great marketing campaign behind it, or it's got the hot to a girl or something. It just does not make sense. So for me, I have a little bit of investment in blockchain and and crypto in general, and I have that spread around the big three, which is, to me, Blockchain, Aetherium. Excuse me, Bitcoin, Ethereum and Solana, but I only 5% of my investments are in crypto, and that's because just too volatile for me. I don't I'm not a gambler. I don't mind taking risks when I can stack, you know, odds in my favor, but when I don't have any control over it, I'm a little bit more conservative. So, so there's your crypto the stock market. Stock market guys is set and forget it. There are people out there that are day traders, I know, and they probably make decent money doing it, but it is all they do. They get up early in the morning and they're running reports, and they're looking at what happened in the Nikkei and and all around the world, and you know, they're making large trades, and if you want to live and breathe that life, okay, okay, then that'll work for you. If you don't want that, then you're better off just to get an index fund, just, you know, dollar cost average into some sort of index fund, one of the big ones, SB, 500 something like that. And what I mean by dollar cost average, if you don't know what dollar cost average is, it means you you say, Okay, I have $1,000

Unknown Speaker  03:23
that I want to invest

Speaker 1  03:26
in, the s, p5, 100 spider. So what I'll do is, rather than take that $1,000 and just drop it in there today at whatever price it is, I'm going to take that $1,000 and I'm going to break it up in $100 increments, and I'm going to do it over 10 weeks. So every Friday, I'll set set up a trade that every Friday at eight, let's say noon, it's gonna buy $100 worth of the spider. And the reason for that is, is because you no one knows if it's at its low or it's at its high or what. So you're hedging your bet. You're spreading it out over those 10 weeks. So if it does go down, you save some money. If it goes up, yeah, you eat that. But over 10 weeks time, you're getting a more consistent price, because you can't time the market. I don't care who you are. Warren Buffett, Elon Musk, doesn't matter. You cannot time the market, and the stock market is a long term strategy. You're not going to get in there and drop 10,000 in there and then come back a month, two months later and pull out 20 doesn't work that way. And if you do hit a lottery ticket like that, you're going to pay huge capital gains when you pull it out. But luckily, if you have real estate, you can deduct your depreciation from those capital gains and not pay taxes on it. See how this works. It all works together. Okay, so that's. Stocks. I like the s5&p 100 Spyder. Can't go wrong with that. It's the 500 largest corporations. It changes. You know, companies go in and out of that 500 but they're strong, long lasting companies.

Unknown Speaker  05:17
So the next thing would be

Speaker 1  05:20
investing in real estate. Obviously, I love real estate. Real estate is fantastic, but you might not have a lot of time to invest in real estate. So there's some things that you can do in real estate. You can invest in syndication. So syndication is when a developer or an investor, somebody who's in the space and knows what they're doing wants to buy a large apartment complex. So they might buy 100 unit apartment complex, let's say it's in St Louis or something, and what they're looking for is they're looking for investors to put capital in. They will manage it, they will source the deal, and they will use your money to buy the deal, to rehab the deal, whatever it is they're doing. And you become a passive investor. You just drop the money in. You get your reports, hopefully, if you've attached yourself to a reputable investor or developer, whoever it is, and do your research on this guys, because there are a lot of fly by the seat of the pants people that this year are in trouble, and I'll talk about that in a later video. But you get, if you want to get into real estate, you can do that so you can invest in syndication. It's a, it's, it's, gives you a little bit more choice as to what markets and how much money and who you trust, things like that, you have a little more say in it, because you can pick the person

Unknown Speaker  06:50
so, so you can

Speaker 1  06:51
do that syndication. You can also just invest in a REIT. A REIT is re it a real estate investment trust. So that's a whole cluster of real estate investments that you can just put money into, and you buy it, just like you would a stock on any exchange. You're going to buy into a REIT, and that will give you so much money, usually in dividends. Most REITs are dividend stocks, and a dividend. If you don't know, it's just money that every quarter is paid to you from the the amount that the company is making, or in this case, that the real estate is making. So you get a little bit of money back, and hopefully it also appreciates. But that's a read. Or if you're a little bit more hands on, you can get in there. You can get some rental properties, and you can get there's, it's such a huge topic that I can't get into it too much. But like you can invest in trailers, mobile homes. You can invest in tiny homes, single families, duplex, triplex, quad plus, or you could, if you want to, if you're you've got more capital to deploy. And you understand the commercial loan process, you can get into five units or ever. And I tell you what guys, you can make it happen. But you have to figure out what you want. What is it you want from your investments? Are you looking for retirement in 30 years? Are you looking for tax breaks right now? Are you looking for monthly cash flow? Okay, now, if you're looking for retirement in 20 to 30 years, stock market screen, it's hard to go wrong get, you know, it's an average 10% returns over, you know, over that time and that that is awesome. Also, if you're looking for that long term, invest in your 401 k. And if you don't have a 401 K with your with whatever company you're working for, get an IRA and max that thing out, guys. And if your company matches an IRA max out the match, at least it's free money. It's free money if they're putting money into that for you. What's happening behind the scenes in that 401 k is they're investing in real estate, they're investing in stock market, they're investing in all kinds of things, depending on how it's set up and as they're making these transactions. But they're buying and selling and buying and selling. They're not paying the taxes on the gains. You don't pay taxes until you pull the money out at the end. So that's great. If you have enough money to deploy and you want to just get some single family homes, you want to have a little bit of an active role. Okay, there you go. You can buy some single family homes. You can rent those things out if you don't want to deal with tenants and and all that stuff. You can have a management company manage it, but that cuts down on your profits. And you know, the the whole hope there is that you get into a house for 100,005 years from now, hopefully it's worth 120 It, and the tenants have paid your mortgage down. And you know, 1015, 20, you know 30 years it's all paid off, and you have something that is worth, hopefully twice as much in 30 years as you bought it for, and it has no debt, and the tenants are paying you every single month. That's your retirement pension, is what that can be. Or if you want to be more active in it, once it gets close to being paid down, you can refinance it, take them a cash out refinance, which means that you're going to refinance it for more than you had in your loan to begin with, and you can pull out that difference, and you can invest that in another property. So then you have two and you just keep rolling that forward. That's single

Unknown Speaker  10:48
families. It works the same way with small multifamily.

Speaker 1  10:51
You know, you the loans are the same. The way that it's it's valued is the same. And, you know, you generally get a 30 year loan and same thing. But you have more tenants. You have more systems in place, a lot, a lot more churn on, you know, duplexes and triplexes, because a lot of times it's people that you know, younger people that can't really buy a house on their own yet. That's the ideal tenant. If you can find a young couple that is is just trying to find a way to survive until they can save up enough money to buy their own home, that is the ideal tenant. And then your your larger multifamily. So your larger multifamily, same thing, but your loans are structured differently on on large multifamily. So with large multifamily, your loans are commercial loans, and commercial loans generally are about 50 they're 15 year loans. Most, most banks you go to and you talk to them, they only offer a 15 year loan. You might find some that offer upwards of 25 but they always have a reset in there, or refresh, however they want to term it. And what that means is, in in, say, in five years. So I get up, say, I get a loan for $200,000 for

Unknown Speaker  12:14
a five Plex.

Speaker 1  12:17
That means that, you know, whatever my rate is right now on the mortgage. You know, we're paying that every month, every single month, and in five years, you have to refinance. So what they do after five years is you take your P and L's, you take, you know, all your financial statements. You say, this is how much it's bringing in. This is what the rents are. And though, do an appraisal, again, commercial appraisal, by the amount of money that it's making, and say, Okay, it's worth this, and you have to refinance. And that's, that's the difference, and that's why people in 2025 they got these super duper low rates, are going to be in trouble this year. So if you're looking to get into larger multifamily 2025 is your year, get guys like Grant Cardone. I don't know if you guys know Grant Cardone, but he's all over social media, trying to sell you different courses, and he he's going to do this and he's going to do that, but basically he's a billionaire that, in my opinion, is exploiting people who are trying to make it so you can't do what Grant Cardone does on the scale that he does, because he has so much money, he has so much influence, and it's just unrealistic. He's at a point where he does not relate to regular people. I'm sorry, Grant, if, if you're ever watching this, but that's just the way it is. But you don't have to. You don't have to go in there and buy 100 unit place, buy a six Plex. Be a normal person. Buy a six Plex and make some good money. You don't have to, you know, buy 200 units this year and 200 units next year, and you've got all this scary debt, and you're working to buy a jet and everything that might work for him, but he got lucky several times in his life. And I don't know about you guys, but luck has never worked out well for me. You You got to make your own life so, so, yeah, that's, that's the real estate, you know, and then there's businesses. So if you want cash flow month to month, cash flows, like you want to supplement your income, you can get a side hustle, you can get a second job, or you can start your own business on the side. Or, even better, you can buy an existing business with a proven track record. So one of the riskiest things you can do is start a business from scratch. I think it's something. I forget the number, but it's like 70. It's over 70% of startup businesses fail in the first couple years. Is, and why is that? Well, because you're starting a business, you don't have any customers, you you're and if it's your first one, you're trying to figure out how to do your taxes, how to do your payroll, how to do your invoicing. There's so much to figure out. But if you find, excuse me, if you find a business

Unknown Speaker  15:18
that has it's been going

Speaker 1  15:21
for at least three years. You have all the financials, you have their tax returns that you can look at. You can see exactly how much money was coming in, exactly how much money was going out, and you know what it's worth. And the day you walk into that that business, the day you sign the paperwork saying, this is now my business, you're making that money, that cash flow that was already coming in, with those established customers, with that marketing campaign, with those that invoicing system, with those employees that know what they're doing, you inherit that. Now, don't get me wrong, there are business owners out there that are trying to get out of a bad situation, so you have to do your homework, and we can talk about that in future videos, but you can make good extra money for not a lot of risk, and you can get SBA loans, which are Small Business Administration loans, in order to get a larger business than what you think. And I'll have dedicated business, you know, videos, to acquiring business. And I've done it both. I've started a business on my own and I've acquired business, and it's tough. It's really tough to get a business started. I'll just tell you. What I did is I started a lawn service first. I thought it was going to be this simple thing. It's not simple. It can make a lot of money, and there's a lot of potential, but it requires a lot of effort and a lot of learning on your part. So but you can do it. You can absolutely do it. So that's if you want cash flow every single month you want just a little extra money coming in. That's the way to do it. Cash flow as well, if you want to supplement your income, and you're pretty handy, and, you know, real estate, or, you know, construction, you can do flips. I'm not a flipper. It takes too much time, and you pay too much taxes, because it's just like, it gets taxed the same, same way as your w2 job, it's, it's active income, and there's a lot of risk, you know, you're you're going into a house that is run down, that looks crappy, and you're gonna go over there and you're gonna figure out, Okay, here's how much I'm gonna put into it. Here's what it's gonna be worth when it's done. And there's a lot that can go wrong if you don't know a lot about building materials and how much things cost, and you can do it yourself. It's really, really tough to get in there, and that's just not something I'm interested in. I would rather take that money and buy a business, an existing business, with that money, and then go in and help them with their automation, put some of my team in place to run it and sit back and let it do its thing, because, again, you have years of tax records to know how much it's going to make. So yeah, I don't know if this has helped guys, but figure out what your goals are in your investing. Once you know your goals, then you can narrow down into what you want to do. But at the end of the day, the difference between regular people and rich people is that the wealthy take their money and have it make more money. Regular people think, well, I'm going to put this money in the bank and I'm going to save, save, save, save. And you know, if something bad happens, I've got, I've got money that that I can fall back on. And, yeah, you have to have emergency funds, don't get me wrong, but don't sit on your life savings and think that you're going to be okay if you want to live a wealthier lifestyle, if you want to level up your family, because that's not what wealthy people do. They don't sit on huge stockpiles of cash forever. They deploy the cash to get it to work for them. That's the difference. Okay if, if I helped you out in any way, if you have any questions like and follow, and there's gonna be more to come. I'm gonna keep getting into this stuff. If you have any specific questions, post them. If you have a video that you would like me to talk about certain things, I'll totally do that. Just let me know. Guys. Peace, you.
