Speaker 1  00:00
Figure out as a group how to do it so, so that way I'm able to reach more people at one time, as opposed to, you know, just trying to carve out time in my day for, you know, like a one on one call. There's just no way. I'm too busy. And I don't agree with people that do these mentorships and they charge people 1000s of dollars. I think that's bogus and it's predatory. So in my community, it's $1 day, that's it. There's no added fees. There's no nothing. It's $1 a day, that's it. It's all it's ever gonna be.

Unknown Speaker  00:36
Thank you. Appreciate that.

Speaker 1  00:39
But yeah, it's like, I just, I just I don't, I don't agree with people charging all that money for mentorship. Because when I was trying to learn how to do this stuff, I would find somebody on social media, whether it's YouTube or whatever, and they were doing, you know, they were buying businesses, they were investing, they were living the type of life that I was trying to build for myself and my family figure out as a group how to do it so, so that way I'm able to reach more people at one time, as opposed to, you know, just trying to carve out time in my day for, you know, like a one on one call. There's just no way. I'm too busy. And I don't agree with people that do these mentorships and they charge people 1000s of dollars. I think that's bogus and it's predatory. So in my community, it's $1 a day, that's it. There's no added fees. There's no nothing. It's $1 a day, that's it. It's all it's ever going to

Unknown Speaker  01:36
be. Thank you. I appreciate that.

Unknown Speaker  01:38
But, yeah, it's like,

Speaker 1  01:41
I just, I don't, I don't agree with people charging all that money for mentorship. Because when I was trying to learn how to do this stuff, I would find somebody on social media, whether it's YouTube or whatever, and they were doing, you know, they were buying businesses, they were investing, they were living the type of life that I was trying to build for myself and my family. You.
