Speaker 1  00:00
What do wealthy people do that regular people don't do well for one they understand leverage and they acquire businesses. Did you know that the more wealthy someone is, the more likely they are to be a business owner, or even a multiple business owner? This is something that took me a while to understand. I thought when I started this journey to try to find financial freedom, I thought it was going to be real estate. I thought real estate was the key that I was going to get section eight properties. I was going to build wealth like that. What I found is that real estate is a great way to preserve wealth. What it's not is a good way to build wealth from scratch. You generally have to have money, and it's a long, slow burn with a lot of hassles. So when I pivoted to buying small businesses that already cash flow, that are already profitable, that have management teams in place, it completely changed my life. So I don't invest out of state. I invest within a 200 mile radius of my location right now, and I spend about an hour a week managing the managers of these businesses. It's been completely transformative to my life, to my family's life, and I teach people how to do exactly the same thing. If you're interested in learning how to do that, you don't want to pay for some expensive course from a guru. Join my community. It's $1 a day. I can teach you all the same principles that I've been using so you don't fall into the common snares that most people do when they attempt to buy a business for the first time. Because it's not easy. It's not something that you take lightly. There are a lot of things that can go wrong. There are a lot of owners that are honest out there, so just be careful and learn all you can first. But once you get the right skills and the right tools, you can acquire a business and completely transform your life this year. You don't have to wait years down the road till you build a bunch of wealth and all this, you can do it. This year, we started the community about less than three months ago, we already have one community member that is buying a business right now, another one is getting ready to close. We are having success stories one after another. And my community members did not pay for an expensive course, they didn't pay for an expensive mentorship. It's simply been $1 a day, and I will teach you the exact same principles that they found success and that I've found success with. Click the link in my bio, join. The only thing stopping you is you.
