Speaker 1  00:00
I get asked about two different types of businesses on a daily basis. The first one is a laundromat and the second one is a restaurant. And it's pretty funny to me, because they are the least risky and most risky of any startup business or business in general. So do you know which is which? Do you know which one is the most likely to fail of all other business types, you got it. Restaurants. Restaurants have a 90% fail rate. So why in the world would you want to start a restaurant when you have competition from everybody? You have corporations that are putting huge amounts of money into advertising. They have systems. They have everything in place, all the different types of food that is not a business that I want to be in. Laundromats, on the other hand, are the least likely to fail of all businesses. They also have a low barrier to entry, because you're not dealing with a lot of employees. They're a good way to get your feet wet as far as entrepreneurship goes. However, there are a lot of people shopping for laundromats right now, and laundromat owners understand and know this, so be careful, the prices can be artificially inflated just because they're popular right now. You know, there are other businesses that you can get into that are also not very risky, storage units, vending machines, like those types of businesses also are easy for a first time business owner or business acquirer. If you don't know me, my name is Shane. I've been on this financial freedom journey for quite a while now. I originally started trying to find financial freedom through real estate, and what I found was that real estate was not the most effective way to get cash flow. It's acquiring businesses. Once I pivoted to acquiring businesses, it completely changed my life. In three years, I went from basically broke to financially free, where I don't have to worry about anything these days. So if you're interested in acquiring a business, be careful. It's very possible, but there's a lot to learn. So go on a journey to learn this stuff first. But it is totally worth it. It can absolutely change your life. You.
