Speaker 1  00:00
If you have considered buying a business, but you just don't know where to get started. I know exactly how that feels. So three years ago, I was just mildly interested in starting or owning a business. And fast forward, three years later, and now I had owned multiple businesses. I run them absentee is completely changed my life and my family's life. So what can you do right now to get started on that journey? Well, number one, get your credit score right. If your credit score is below 700 you're going to have a very difficult time getting any kind of financing to start a business or to buy a business that includes seller financing, because most sellers are going to want to want to know what your credit score is. If you can't pay other creditors, why would you pay them? Number two, go on bizbuysell.com Look at all the businesses for sale in your area and get familiar with those numbers and the opportunities that are out there. You need to know what the list price is. You need to know what cash flow is, what EBITDA is, all of those things you can look up and research on your own. And number three, start saving some money. Start saving some money. You know, you're going to need to have some skin in the game. You have to put some sort of down payment down. There are creative ways to do it, but you can absolutely start saving now just, you know, get an extra job, spend less. It's not rocket science. And number four, think about the type of business that you're suited for. Are you great for sales? Are you great at managing people? Are you good with your hands, whatever? Because you will bring a skill set, even if you're absentee, you will bring a skill set to every business that you enter. So wouldn't make sense for someone who knows absolutely nothing about software to buy a SaaS company, right? You need to at least know a little something about what the business is. That doesn't mean you have to be an expert, because you can pay experts to do that for you, but you need to at least experiment and think about that stuff. So if you're interested, start now. Fix your credit, start learning. Get moving. And if you want to learn how I did it, you want to learn about my systems. Get a little head start. Click the link in my bio. Join the money Language Academy. I'll show you exactly how to do it.
