Speaker 1  00:00
Do you want to get rich? Do you want to understand what it takes to actually get rich? Well, let me say something. First, there's no such thing as a get rich quick. Thing like that does not exist. And I can also tell you that you're not going to get rich working a nine to five job. It just doesn't happen unless you're a doctor, a lawyer, you work for big finance, possibly an engineer, something like that. Those are the only people that get rich working a nine to five job. All the rest of us, the only thing we do by working a nine to five job is survive and make our bosses and the CEOs and the shareholders rich. So how do you actually get rich? How do you gain wealth? It's not a secret. It's buying assets that bring you money. It's ownership and control over assets that bring you money. Specifically, now you can do real estate that's a that's a great investment. I own quite a bit of real estate. It's great, but it's not really going to get you wealthy and change your life in the short term. So what can and what does buying cash flowing businesses? There is nothing like it when it comes to return on investment. You can buy a cash flowing business that can completely change your life with one acquisition using the same down payment that you would do to buy an investment property. So there's no big secret to this, and it's not easy. It doesn't doesn't come stress free, it doesn't come risk free, but it is 100% possible. I've been doing it for the last four years. I bought nine businesses in the last four years. It's completely transformed my life and my family's life. We went from struggling, from not owning a home to not, you know, having vehicles that weren't paid off, like we were doing what everybody else was doing, which is surviving month to month. Fast forward, four years later, we have complete and total financial freedom. I can do whatever I want with my time. My wife has stopped working. She doesn't need to work anymore, and it's all from buying cash flow producing small businesses like this auto repair shop that you see behind me. They're not fancy businesses. They're not, you know, clubs and, you know, internet startups and all this stuff. They're home service industry businesses that are for sale in every community in America. They are plumbing, HVAC, landscaping, property management, auto repair, tire shops, businesses that are easy to understand, that are always, always going to be around. So if you want to learn how to buy a business, don't pay someone 1000s and 1000s of dollars for a mentorship. Don't do that. If you have any questions, click the link in my bio, go to my website. Watch a lot of my free stuff. Put any kind of comments on this post, I will answer any comment that you put on this post. I do my best. So if you want to learn how to do this, join my community. I will teach you exactly how I did it.
