Speaker 1  00:01
I've been buying businesses for years now. I own multiple absentee businesses. I've started them, I've bought them. And here are some of the things that I get asked about constantly when someone learns that I buy businesses. Number one, where do you find the business? I have been asked that question probably 2000 times this year. Every single live it gets asked multiple times, and there's no easy way to answer that, because there are so many different venues to find a profitable business. But probably the most common is bizbuysell.com, I know that's a kind of a generic answer to that question, but it still holds true. Most of the businesses that I have purchased have come off of biz buy, sell or bizquest.com, they're like the Zillow and Redfin of buying a business also just word of mouth is a good way to put yourself out there and let people know that you're interested in buying a business. The very first business that I bought was a property management company that I bought from an aging owner that was just sick of dealing with it. We became friends, and I asked him one day, I said, Hey, you want to sell the business? And he said, Yeah, and that was the seed of that acquisition right there. Also, you can simply go on Facebook marketplace and search for businesses for sale. In my area, for sale by owner. Businesses are listed there all the time. It's kind of hard to find a good deal, because most business owners inflate the price. They just think their business is worth more than it actually is. But it's still a good place to start. It's a good place to find potential seller finance deals as well. So those are just some of the the simpler ways that you can find them also. You can just go door to door. You can you can find that business in your area that you know has been there for 20 years, the same person, same family, owns it. Go there and just ask about the business. One thing I've learned about business owners, especially boomers, is that if they started that business from scratch, they love to talk about it. They love to tell you the entire history of that business. They will sit there and talk about all the challenges, all the wins and losses that they've had over the years, and that's a good place to start a potential acquisition, because most business owners don't know how to sell their business. They might want to, they might be burned out, but they're afraid they're not going to get enough money out of it. They're worried about what's going to happen to their employees. There's a lot of concerns that they have, but they still have a desire to sell because they want to move on with their lives. So put yourself out there. Check out all of the business listing websites. Go on Facebook marketplace. You can even go on Craigslist, which I don't even know Craigslist still existed, but it does, and people list businesses on there. And if, if you want a more in depth, look at where you can find businesses for sale. You can click the link in my bio, go to my website, scroll all the way down and download my free top 10 list of my favorite places to look for a business for sale. It's completely free. You can have it. There's also a bunch of videos that you can watch on there for free too. So just let me know you.
