Speaker 1  00:04
Hey everybody, this is the first class of the money Language Academy. And what we're going to focus on tonight is we're going to talk about the business acquisition section, and primarily how to vet a business that the main things to look for to see if you even want to consider getting financials for the business, see if you even want to pursue it. The Same, same way that you're scrolling through Zillow, and you're, you're seeing houses that look great, but then you look at it's a bad neighborhood, or it's, you know, too much money, or it's got, it's on a bluff and it's falling into the sea. I don't know whatever it is, but like to be able to identify those things quickly, so you don't waste your time, because when you're buying a business, you will end up analyzing and crunching the numbers on hundreds of businesses, because it takes a while to find the gyms, because there's a lot of duds out there. So but at the same time, it's an it's a numbers game. So if you go through enough of them, you will find the deals. So I just kind of wanted to talk about those, those steps, and also I wanted to bring up the community documents too that are a part of this community. All this stuff is out here for you. If you haven't gotten it yet. There's a link in the welcome message. You can get all of this stuff so it's all yours to do with whatever you want. It will help you kind of analyze the situations. Okay, so can you share my screen? Oh, you guys didn't see that, did you? Because I wanted to sharing my screen. Okay, that would probably make more sense. Okay, there you go. This is what I mean. This is just just kind of a list of the documents, all of them that are in there. And I will continue to add documents to this. I promised the other day that I would add the strategy document, which is the deal funding strategies right there. I haven't put that on the drive yet, but I will. I'll do that tonight, right after the live or after this class. And that's the $10,000 course document that I was talking about. If you guys heard that live. So, so there's that. Okay, so let's go ahead and get into this. So I know that a lot of you guys have heard me talk about this, but I'm going to go ahead and repeat it, just so we have it down and in the community. But the main five things that you're looking for in the business acquisition vetting process, when you when you come across the business, you know, we've already talked about in their lives before, recession resistant businesses. So that's the main thing. You know, you don't want something that is like a luxury business. You don't want something that's just like hot right now, at the moment, you know, like, like a cold plunge business. Things like that really kind of drive me nuts, because, you know that no one's going to pay to jump into ice water. When the economy turns right, they want to jump in ice water. They'll do it themselves. Things like that. That just kind of common sense. First glance at a business, and then after that, it's the number one thing that you're looking for is the cash flow. And you know, I've said it several times, you know, the cash flow times three needs to be greater than the asking price. So in in practical terms, if a business, if they're asking $300,000 for the business, it needs to make at least $100,000 in cash flow. So, and remember, there's a difference between cash flow in general revenue and sales, those do not mean the same thing you know cash flow is. And sometimes, if it's a large business, it'll say EBIT da, Eb, I T da, which means earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization. That's, that's what you see on a business that's about that's usually over a million, they'll use EBITDA instead. But I would recommend everybody, when you get started, to look at the smaller ones first, you know, try to get a base hit before you hit a home run. That will allow you to put yourself in a better position to branch out from there. So that cash flow is the amount of money that the owner takes home every year after everything's paid, the employees are paid, the debts, paid, the mortgage, whatever it everything's done and that, that's their take home cash, and that times three needs to be greater than the asking price. And the reason for that is because it will pay the debt down within three years, as long as it's less than a $1.6 million business.

Unknown Speaker  04:43
And if we can look at the math of that

Speaker 1  04:47
and here in a second, but it also is only for non real estate business acquisition. It's a whole different ball game. If you're trying to buy the business and the real estate together, it changes the numbers. Years. So just remember that when you're vetting a business and it says real estate included in the price, that this system doesn't quite work. We'll talk about how to vet those later. So that's the first one. The second one is the years in operation. This one's pretty straightforward, and it should be, you know, greater than or equal to seven years. I know that some people say five years is enough, but to me, seven years is really the sweet spot, because, you know, you can prop something up for five years. I feel like, especially if the owner is really working 6070, hours a week and just just killing themselves to try to get the business off the ground. And you know, some people will work five years at a business just to sell it, but when you're reaching that seven year mark, you've put a big chunk of your life into that business, if you're that owner, and more than likely, you're leaving not because you necessarily want to but life or age or illness or something like that may have, like, pushed you out. And it also means that it's battle tested. It's been through economic downturns. It's been through, you know, loss of employees. It's a long enough track record that it's weathered many storms, and then they likely have systems in place. If they don't have systems in place, they at least have employees that are very familiar with the day to day. Because one of the biggest risks of acquiring a business that you plan to turn absentee is if the internal employees that are already there either plan to leave when the owner sells, or they're just not capable of managing that business. So that's one of the big things that you have to worry about, and I think the seven year mark really helps safeguard you against that. The third one is the number of employees you want, seven employees or more. You again, you can get away with five, but generally you probably have to bring your own manager in there. And I say seven because usually that's a that's a big enough team where probably the owner could not be managing them by themselves, unless it's one of those just really, really gung ho owners that spends, you know, every waking moment at that business, usually there's somebody that's going to be a right hand person that knows the hiring process, they know the bookkeeping, they know that the day to day job stuff itself, and then they have a good rapport with the employees, the other employees. So you end up finding employees that are more well trained, they're more dependable. You have they have a history, you know, hopefully, if there's seven employees and the thing's been going for seven years, you can find someone that's been working there three, four or five, maybe even since the beginning, and then they become your good management material, because they will be your boots on the ground, so to speak, and they're going to protect your interests. And a key component to finding a good manager is to make sure that their goals are aligned with your goals, and how you can do that is with incentives and bonuses and things like that. The better they perform, the better, the happier the customers are, the more money you make at the end of the day, and the more money they make. So it's a win, win. But that seven from, from my experience, has been the magic number, and then absentee. You know, we don't want to buy a job right now. You can go out probably almost, almost all of us could probably qualify for like a Subway franchise, and you don't have to put very much money into it, and if you're willing to work 60 hours a week for 50 to $60,000 then there you go. You can totally do that. But I think everybody's goal here is to get something that's more passive. And buying a business will never be fully passive, but it is definitely semi passive if, if you buy it in the right way, so if the owner already has it labeled as absentee, that's a good sign, because at least they're not there all the time. But you have to be very careful, because you know that might mean they work 110 hour shift a week. And you know that might you know, because they're not there every single day. To me, absentee is an hour a week, but it's, it's more what you're comfortable with. So just, just go into it thinking, you know, you need to know what you're capable of doing, the amount of time that you have on the side, and also know that when you buy a business, the work is front loaded to where there's going to be a very intense two weeks to a month where you're setting everything up and you're making sure everything's running the way that you want it to and the way it should. Then after that, it should quiet down and it should it. You're basically propping it up to where it can walk on its own if it's not already propped up. So it's going to take some time at the beginning, but it shouldn't take that amount of time in perpetuity. It should slow down and then they take it over. Okay? And then the reason for selling this one is it's number five, but it might be the most important, because it tells you so much about the business itself, the you know you're looking for, retirement, death, divorce, illness, all the bad things. It's same thing within real estate. You know, the the three Ds in real estate are death, divorce and disrepair, which means that you, you know, you can add value in real estate, but for our purposes, it means that the owner is selling not because of the state of the business, but because the state of their life requires them to leave because they're getting older, or they just can't physically do it anymore. They're burned out, or they just, you know, they want to retire, whatever it is, but no one's going to put on a listing. The reason why I'm selling is because this is a big piece of crap, but they will use terms where you can discern that, like exploring other options, is one that you see quite a bit if they were really happy with the business and they're making, you know, good cash flow and good returns, then they wouldn't need to explore other options. They would just let that business run itself and then buy another one. That would be another option, you know, or another business is taking too much of their time, and they can't devote it to this if this business was so good, then they would devote that extra time to this one and drop the other one right. One, right? So they're trying to get rid of their dud, and then another one that I've seen, that's that's definitely a red flag, is moving to another sector. So that tells me that either they're unsuccessful with what they've been trying to do, or they just pick the wrong type of business or the wrong location for it, or they've marketed it the wrong way, regardless, that means that it has some, some serious issues going on, and we don't want to buy anything that we have to, you know, like a rehab situation. We're not stepping in like Marcus Lemonis and saying, Okay, you're losing this much money. Here's my I'm inject capital and I'm going to turn this thing around. I'm do this. That's not what we want, at least at the beginning. If you feel like you have a good handle on that, you can do that later. Okay, but I'm still not doing that. I don't want any part of it. I think it's a little bit it's a little bit arrogant to think that you can just step in and fix someone's problem when they've been doing everything they can for years to try to fix it themselves. And I just don't think it's that easy. It's not like, you know, putting new flooring in a house and it's worth more money. Business is a lot different, and some businesses need to fail so stronger ones can take over, and it's a sad, sad reality of acquisitions. But yeah, so there's the there's the main five. I would also like to go through and just kind of show you the examples of that within, within the analyzer, and kind of go through, through it all live. Let's see where to go.

Unknown Speaker  13:29
Somebody give me a state.

Unknown Speaker  13:34
Doesn't matter. Just, just

Unknown Speaker  13:36
in my door, Georgia. Oh,

Speaker 1  13:38
I think I heard Georgia first. So let's try Georgia. Let's see. So we'll just the easy one is biz, buy, sell. It's the most user friendly. And if you guys haven't, has everybody had a chance to at least start looking for businesses? I hope it. If not, I would. I would suggest that you do it as quickly, as quickly as possible. Just just start getting an idea of how this stuff works. So we'll just say Georgia, and we'll go to these other filters. And for biz, buy, sell, I always hide listings without a price. If they're ashamed of the price, it's way too much money, and it just they never pan out, like every time I've inquired about a business that doesn't have a price, and they come back with the price. It's ridiculous. I personally don't want a home based business, but that's just me. I would rather have something with you know, brick and mortar, they tend to be more established. I don't I don't click the must have seller financing, because some owners might not say it at the beginning, but you can talk them into it, if that's your thing. You get a you build a rapport, and you come with a good deal, and you make it make sense to them, and you can still get the seller financing. I don't click the must have real estate included either if it does, okay, but yeah, this is one I definitely do click most. To allow absentee owner. Now I will say this if you, if you go through and you don't find anything, you can come back and unclick this and look for one that has really good cash flow that you could possibly put your own management into. It just has to. It has to have enough cash flow where it can justify you hiring a manager or bringing someone like in my case, sometimes I'll I'll bring, at least temporarily, someone from one of my other businesses in there. That's one of the benefits of investing locally, is the businesses are close together. You can pull your resources and I hide franchise opportunities because I'm not, not trying to start a new franchise. Okay, let's see what we got here. And I don't, I don't put any of the prices in there, because you just never know. Okay, what do we got now? Let's do the industries too, because we want recession resistant industries. So I'm going to put service

Speaker 2  16:05
automotive, Hey, Shane, yeah, sorry to interrupt. It's still in all of them, not Georgia.

Speaker 1  16:12
Oh, it did, and it went right back to Texas. Thank you, yeah, thank you. Georgia. There we go. Okay, so I usually start with service, businesses and automotive. If I don't find anything there, because I still like tech, I will, you know, click the More industries. And I'll pick tech, like online and technology. I'll go ahead and pick it, just to make sure. And you can also pick building and construction. Building and Construction, that counts too. So there we go. We're going to cast a wide net here, the ones that I don't really ever pick travel. I never, never pick travel, restaurants and food, because if you listen to my lives, I don't like the competition of restaurants, and I also don't like the limited shelf life of the food itself. If you don't sell it in time, you know you're it spoils, and, yeah, you can deduct it, but it, I don't know. It's just not a good model to me.

Unknown Speaker  17:16
Okay, see what we got.

Unknown Speaker  17:22
Oh, top selling brand on Tiktok.

Unknown Speaker  17:26
Okay, here's a car wash.

Speaker 1  17:30
Look at that. It looks like it's an auction. Though. I've never bought a business from auction. Okay. Now these take fives. We have one in my hometown. They actually stay busy all the time.

Unknown Speaker  17:48
But it doesn't look like

Speaker 1  17:51
it has the cash flow. Yeah, there's just not enough information. So we'll skip this one.

Unknown Speaker  17:57
Let's see retail hub

Speaker 1  18:06
window tinting. This is what I mean by knowing when a business is not even close to being worth it. Is right here you can see the cash flow is $25,000 and they want 200,000 for it. No freaking way, no way.

Unknown Speaker  18:28
Commercial fence business.

Speaker 1  18:33
That one's that one's pretty close, but that is a big business. Let's keep looking.

Unknown Speaker  18:40
Health supplement. Okay, let's look at this one.

Speaker 1  18:45
Okay, if you think about our first, our first criteria there is this, times three needs to be greater. Now that's not quite there, but it's very, very well, I guess it is. Yeah, it's that you're going to get 360 there, right? So it's right on that verge. So that's good. It was established in 2015

Unknown Speaker  19:05
so it's been around for 10 years. That's great.

Unknown Speaker  19:10
Four employees, oh,

Speaker 1  19:15
FF and E is included in it. Got a small building, only 500 square feet, but only for employees. That is a little risky, but the numbers look good. If you don't mind possibly spending time in it yourself, and you have the extra time, it could quite possibly be something, but there's one possibility.

Unknown Speaker  19:42
Oh, okay, again, this one,

Speaker 1  19:47
that's a 10 multiple, no way. Here you go, liquor store. I don't know how you guys feel about liquor stores ethically, but this, this could be a good deal. People, and it's been around seven years now. The thing with liquor stores is there's so much theft involved in liquor that you you lose quite a bit, but that theft is also a tax write off.

Unknown Speaker  20:13
But, yeah, I'll just leave it to everybody

Speaker 1  20:17
you know to make that determination themselves. But I mean, just at first glance, it seven years in business, absentee owner that meets the numbers perfectly. Only three employees, okay, so the owner, but it says absentee, so you'd this might be worth looking into a little more, and it does not. Oh, there you go. Owner is absent. Hmm, I've never seen that owner is absent. So they just don't exist anymore. I don't know, but this one would be one that you would get more information on if you were okay with liquor stores, you know, it would require $75,000 cash down, though, that's that's the thing. But yeah, it's possibly a go. And it's as simple as just filling this out. And they will usually get back to you just try to be professional. Make sure that your email address is not hot lips 42 at Gmail or something like that, just a regular email, you know, like your name at Gmail, and you so you don't have to put your phone number in if you don't want to, and the message that you use is something like, I'm interested in acquiring this business in the next 90 to 180 days. I would like to inquire further and look at financial data, and that's it. That's all you need to do. They will get back to you, and if you, if you're okay with putting your number in, usually they'll call you and you can just actually talk to them. Let's see if it's, is it a broker or hmm, I don't see there's no broker listed over here. So this is probably for sale by owner, which is even better.

Unknown Speaker  22:13
Okay, so there's two possibles.

Speaker 3  22:16
I have a quick question. Sure. Did you say the next 60 to 90 days?

Speaker 1  22:23
Yeah, no, no, no. 90 to 180 it's really hard to close they. Everybody knows it, unless you're going to come in with cash, it's very difficult to close on a business in in less than 90 days. And if you do, you probably haven't done your due diligence like you should have. So it just kind of establishes a little bit of credibility at the at the beginning, because you at least know the process. Yeah, you can close on real estate in 30 days and 60 days, easily, but not really a business unless you do some seller financing, but, but you know, you have to be very careful that they're not hiding things from you, that they've reported the way that they should have reported on their taxes, like there's just so much involved in it. So yeah, yeah. 90 to 180 is kind of the sweet spot. Okay, Ooh, there's a dry cleaner. That's a good one. So you can already tell the multiple right there is. It's pretty good. So let's look at this. So obviously, you know that will pay for itself quickly. I don't really care about the gross revenue. I just want to, you know, you want to make sure that it's way above this number, but the gross revenue doesn't really matter. You could have $1 billion gross revenue and still on the cash flow, 100,000

Unknown Speaker  23:53
doesn't really matter. So when

Speaker 2  23:54
it comes to laundromats, it's okay, isn't it? Do you make an exception for the employee rule?

Speaker 1  24:00
Yeah, because they they're not really doing anything day to day. It's like, the same thing with vending machine business, you know, if there's just a couple of employees and all they do is just go swap out things, yeah, it's because you're not managing. It's not like, you know, a store where people are coming in. It's not like a crew of people going out and serve serving customers. You know it's Yeah, but at the same time, you still have to be careful, because if you only have three employees and one gets ill, who's going to pick up that slack, the owner. So it's still, it's still a part of it, and you still have to be careful. But it's not, it's not a deal breaker when it's more of an automated business like this.

Speaker 3  24:48
Got it? Shane, we have someone in the Andres in the waiting room. I think,

Speaker 4  24:54
oh, oh, I. I

Unknown Speaker  25:04
Okay, here we go.

Unknown Speaker  25:08
Sorry about that, Andre

Speaker 1  25:12
didn't see you. Okay. So this is a good one, so far right? Eight employees. So why would they need eight employees? Because it's a dry cleaner, it's not a laundromat. So this, this one's a little bit different, but they include the rent. This is really good, because you can actually go out and look, do they have the address here? Probably not. But once you figure out the address, you have the rent, you can see, is it fair? Is it fair market? You know, you can look at at the surrounding real estate, you can just Google price per square foot for commercial real estate in what city is this? Alpharetta, Georgia, and AI will tell you the average for that that area just just at the top of Google, and it's pretty accurate from what I've seen. So that will let you know, are they way underpaying? And if they are way underpaying, sometimes they they're listing their business because they know they're going to have a big rent hike, and their margins aren't good enough to cover it. That can happen at times. So that's great that they put it out here.

Unknown Speaker  26:16
Only going to train for two weeks now.

Speaker 1  26:20
We put in our list must be absentee, so it doesn't say absentee, but they must have clicked it, otherwise we wouldn't have gotten this business so the owner considers it to be absentee and relocation, hmm, that's kind of iffy, but it's not, it's not one of those red flag ones. Maybe they just have to leave for family, you know, they have someone sick in another state, and they have to go, you know, something like that. But this would be another one that you would you would want to get more information on and see right here, it includes a time frame.

Speaker 3  27:01
Do you recommend asking for a specific period of training?

Speaker 1  27:08
It depends this one like you're dealing with dry cleaners, you're dealing with a lot of chemicals, and you have to be able to dispose of the chemicals in the right way. It's very rigid. So two weeks seems a little short for that, but that's all part of your once you hit the purchase agreement phase, after the due diligence, the main due diligence, then you can negotiate that. And if they absolutely are not willing to stay more than two weeks, you can negotiate a small salary for them to keep them on for another couple of weeks, if you really feel like you need that help, especially on your first business, like there's nothing wrong with that, and if they're a good owner and they really care about the future of the business, they're going to be willing to work with you on that. They're not going to kill a deal because you want them to stay an extra week or two. They're just not. But, yeah, it's important, you know, if you think about especially highly technical things, something with a whole bunch of customers and intricate bookkeeping, I mean, there can be all kinds of things that you have to take into account. So you don't really know until you pop the hood, and you see what their systems are like. The the auto repair shop that I'm currently looking at, they have the old employees still use paper receipts, and then the young employees have to take those paper receipts in triplicate and then take pictures of them and upload them to the computer system, things, things like that. It's like, okay, so all those employees have to be trained.

Unknown Speaker  28:47
Yeah. She just never knows who you actually get there in person.

Speaker 1  28:52
But there, I mean, there you go. That's Georgia. That was three businesses, pretty much two good ones. And you can see the process, right? So what was your favorite out of those three that we just looked at? Just somebody pick one.

Unknown Speaker  29:05
I like the liquor store in Hall County.

Speaker 1  29:07
Okay, let's go to the liquor store. We'll analyze that further.

Unknown Speaker  29:14
Okay, liquor store, all right.

Unknown Speaker  29:21
Now, let's go to the acquisition

Speaker 1  29:26
see what we got. We have 750,000

Unknown Speaker  29:41
Okay, the cash flow is 250,000

Speaker 1  29:48
now you just skip this. You don't put the multiple in there. It'll fill it for you. So that tells you, right there, that it meets our criteria. Anything above a three meets our cash flow criteria.

Unknown Speaker  29:59
Yeah. Gross revenue,

Speaker 1  30:03
300,000 FF and E, none.

Unknown Speaker  30:08
Why are you changing these numbers?

Speaker 1  30:11
Why am I changing the numbers in the spreadsheet? Yeah, well, I'm just, I'm plugging in the the numbers from, oh, okay, yeah, on your spreadsheet, yeah, yeah. This is, this is a spreadsheet that everybody has access to in the community. So you can take those numbers from your from your possible deal, and plug them in. It'll give you more insight to, you know, the possibilities here.

Speaker 2  30:38
So, yeah, inventory, so it's like a cheat sheet for the business that you're looking at, right?

Speaker 5  30:46
Yeah, I thought that this was part of the ad. And I'm like, why is he changing it?

Speaker 1  30:52
Oh, no, no, no. This was just, I just opened it up on my my laptop to analyze this. Yeah, so, and the yellow boxes are the only ones you should change. Everything else should, should auto fill by the values that you put in the yellow Okay, makes it a little easier. So, okay, so FF and E. If you don't know what FF and E is, it means furniture, fixtures and equipment that that could be. You know, cash register, shelving, you know, that kind of stuff, equipment, like, if it's construction, it might be a bulldozer, it might be a truck that all goes in FF and E. Now this one says in a so that tells me that probably the place that they rent from already had the shelving and everything they needed. They probably their cash register. They probably don't own that. They probably rent it from the point of sale provider, which is all fine. It's all fine, just that stuff should be included in the financials when you look through it, okay, so inventory, it says 500,000 now, obviously that's not included in the asking price. And you can tell that because it has a little asterisk right here and it says not included. So you would have to consider that as part of the deal, right? That's that underlying stuff. So you can make you can you can include, you can buy all of that and get a loan from the SBA to purchase that, or you can sell or finance that. It just depends on how if they actually own everything, or like in the case, sometimes, in the case of cigarettes, if they're selling cigarettes, they have, they have a weird system with with tobacco, where you pay for it. It's the oddest thing, like you pay for it and then you have to reimburse and then they give you some money back. It's like you almost pay for it twice. It's a weird thing, another reason why I wouldn't want to tobacco shop. But there you go. So we put the inventory in there. Closing Date doesn't matter, but you could, you could throw that in if you want to. So let's say 90 days from now

Unknown Speaker  33:09
would be, Oh, that'd be about, right, just

Unknown Speaker  33:12
about 25 in there.

Speaker 1  33:16
Okay, now here, if you know, because you have employees here. How many employees was that? Three? You wouldn't necessarily need a lot of working capital to pay the salaries of three people before you had enough cash flow. But it can't hurt 5% is kind of the default. That's what I put in here, because it gives you enough to add to the loan as a buffer, if you don't have cash on hand to cover any things that come up, or you got to get additional inventory, or whatever it might be. You know, this is an inventory heavy business, so you have to account for that first month of how do I keep it going? Before the money starts rolling in and pays for it, and you start cycling it over into the inventory renewal process.

Unknown Speaker  34:06
Okay, FF and E is included

Speaker 1  34:13
inventory, if additional, when we already put that in. So I Okay, so when you think about now, it looks like a really great deal, but that inventory kind of throws stuff off, so let's look and see what we have here. Come on. Okay. Now I put the standard SBA loan is 10 years. That's usually, unless there's real estate. If there's real estate involved, though, they will stretch it out to 25 there's no real estate on this one, the interest rate is generally 2.5 or 3% over. Prime which what that means is over the Wall Street Journal prime number. And you can just Google that. What is the Wall Street Journal prime number today? And it'll come up. I think it's the last side. Time I looked at it was seven and a half. So we're pretty close at the 1010,

Unknown Speaker  35:16
year amortization.

Unknown Speaker  35:18
Now, if you wanted, if you needed a salary,

Speaker 1  35:22
you know you're planning on leaving your job or whatever, you could put that here. You can actually get a loan for your first year salary if you wanted to. If this is a really good deal, you could do that. Okay, so you see after, after you pay the debt, which there's your debt payments right there, right you got, it's 16,000 a month that you're paying back. And that ends up being $200,000 a year. And that leaves you about $50,000 left over after you service the debt, after you do everything, and that's including the inventory okay, if we take this out, it changes it, it becomes a much sweeter deal. So if you could do a side deal for the inventory, where you sell or finance that maybe at a much lower rate, a 5% then you could, you could run those numbers. But right now, just the business without the inventory, is really nice. This is the number right here. Whoops, that the lenders are looking for the debt service coverage ratio, and they're looking for a 1.25 on that. Anything below 1.25 they won't even consider it, whether it's SBA, you know, local lender doesn't matter. They're not going to do it. But when you get over two, then they kind of start throwing money at you, however, you still got to account for that inventory. So when you put it there, it becomes very slim, very slim. So, but, yeah, that's, that's the process there. So you just think about, even with the inventory in there, you're going to cash flow $50,000 so you can buy this business. You can't buy it with $75,000 down if you're going to get the inventory too, you would have to put in 125,000 to get all of that inventory as well. So this one had that little gotcha in there of oh, this is only 75,000 but you have to have all this inventory too. So that's why this spreadsheet and the nitty gritty really comes in handy. And you can look at the numbers even more if you want to. You can see your payments. This is just another tab up here, and what it looks like year one year two, how you're as you pay that loan down over 10 years, and you know what you end up with, you can see the five year plan. And if you don't know how commercial loans work, that you get a loan for 10 years, but all commercial loans come with a five year reset. So in five years you have to come back, and they're going to refinance the loan at the prevailing interest rate for the you know, at that again, two and a half or 3% over prime number. So if the rates have gone down, it's going to be better for you. If the rates have gone up by a lot, you could have get yourself in a bind, the way things currently are. If interest rates stay around the same, you're good, because not only does it reset, but it takes all the principal that you've paid. So your loan, your entire loan number compresses too, because you've paid a lot of interest, but you've also paid principal, so you're when it refinances it's almost like getting a loan for 8090, 100, whatever you paid on the principal less. So your payment usually reduces unless, unless we had a situation like you see from between 2020 and now, where, in 2020 interest rates were two, something, three something. And now, you know, they're seven and a half is the prime rate. So that's a big change. A five point change can sometimes bankrupt the business. So if you buy it the right way, though, you won't even make it to the five year reset, because you can pay the debt down in time to not even have to worry about it, especially on businesses that are more like 300,000 400,000 those are much easier to pay down and not, not ever even get close to that five year reset. So that's why I say start small.

Speaker 4  39:53
Got a question? Okay, yeah, so you said it went from 75,000 to a. $125,000 down. So is that because you're saying 10% on the 750 and then another 10% on the 500,000 inventory?

Speaker 1  40:09
Yeah, if you want to, if you're trying to include that in your main loan, and you don't work something out on the side with the lender, with the owner, yeah, but it doesn't necessarily mean that it's a no go, because you can work out a deal for inventory where you can split the profits with with that current owner, right? So so they know how much inventory they have. And you could say, Okay, I can't make this happen on my own. I can't get a loan for all of that inventory, but what I'm willing to do is I will give you 25% of the profits as we sell it, you know, I'll pay you back, you know, the obviously, you know, the cost of goods sold, plus 25% of the profit, or 50% of whatever you're comfortable with, where you still can cash flow enough to where you can pay for the debt for that first year. And then you when you look at the financials, you have to see, okay, how long does it take this business to churn through $500,000 in inventory? You know, it might be selling so much that it takes four or five months and you've already churned through it. So in four or five months time, you may be able to pay that owner off and still service your debt and you don't have to worry about it anymore. It anymore. It just depends on what they're willing to do. But there are

Speaker 4  41:26
always you would do in your due diligence process. So you can come back to negotiations

Speaker 1  41:31
absolutely, absolutely once you get those financials and you see what they're doing month to month, you know your your P and L, and then you see your year to date statement, you can say, Okay, last month they had this much in sales and this much in cost of goods sold, and then you know, okay, it's going to take me about four months to sell this inventory, or six months or one month, who knows. But there are a lot of alternate routes, and that's why business acquisition, you can get so creative, so much more creative than real estate. Real estate, you know, you've got sub two and you've got seller financing, and that's about it. There's not a lot of fancy stuff you can do past that. But it's endless with this. You can even you can do things like, you know, keep the owner, the current owner, give them some equity where they you know, in order for them to give you that $500,000 inventory, you give them 10% of the business from here on out. If that works, I mean, I'm not saying that's a smart idea, but it's a possibility. You just don't know.

Speaker 5  42:38
On the other screen where you were talking about the loan costs and and then working capital. Are those are interchangeable? Or do you need 37 five plus another 37 five under uses of capital right here?

Unknown Speaker  42:59
Well, this is, this is closing costs. Is that what you mean? Yep.

Speaker 5  43:03
So you need that for the closing costs. And then another 37 five

Speaker 1  43:08
like you don't, well, you don't necessarily need. I just default to 5% in every in a business like this with that many employees, I figured that's plenty like when I'm doing deals now I generally I'm unless it would be a big business, I would just cover that myself. And you can actually, you can get credit cards in the business name, because it's established. It's been using the same bank accounts for years, so it has a track record. And you come in there, you go to that same bank, and you get some business credit. You can also get, you know, a line of credit through the bank, and not have to put it into here, but, and you might even get a more favorable rate than the 10 you're going to get here too. So if you're, if your margins are slim and you're looking for ways to cut it off, that's where you can start shaving it, right there. You can say, okay, maybe I don't need this much working capital, or maybe I can get it elsewhere. Or you get capital stack, or, you know, there's a lot of different things that you can do, but, but, yeah, that's where you would try to shave that off. It is, is right there, and then see what you could do with the inventory as well. And really, 5% that's a little high for closing costs. You could probably bring that down to more, like three. It depends on the bank. You Yeah, but yeah, so that, I mean, that's, that's how, how I've been doing it is I go through and I'll look, I'll get a cluster of these businesses, and I'll say, Okay, this is my favorite one that I found tonight, just by eyeballing it using the the Fab Five. And then I'll start plugging it into the spreadsheet and really dig into the numbers. And if these numbers work, and especially like the the auto repair shop that I'm looking at right now, this number is a four. The DSCR on that is a four. And when I see a number that's that high, I have to be careful not to get 2x Excited about it when I talk to the owners, because they don't know what they're selling. Either that or I'm off on my numbers, but either way, it requires going in and looking and verifying and take it, you know, eventually taking that stuff to an account and make sure they're not hiding something. But yeah, yeah. I mean, ideally you would want something a little higher than this. This is right on the edge. I would want something more, more of a 1.5 personally, but you could make it a 1.5 by getting creative with these other numbers too. Okay. But yeah, there you go. So this, this was the first class I would, I would encourage everybody to go and just start looking at what's near you. Go through all the different sites, find the one that you like the best off of that top 10 sites, because they all work. They all have a little, you know, pros and cons to each one. If you like more internet, podcast related kind of businesses, Flippa is a good one. It's got more more than that. If you like just ease of use, it's probably biz by sell, but which just find the one that works for you, maybe even look on Facebook marketplace and apply those five principles to it. And then if, if it passes that test, then plug it in and see what the DSCR is, so you see what the actual numbers look like, okay, and then we can go from there. And if you feel like, okay, I think this might be the one. Then the next phase is, you're going to, you know, request the financials. You're going to reach out and you're going to you're going to ask for a few things you want, three years, at least three years, if not five years of tax returns. Sometimes they will only give you three initially, and then you have to wait till due diligence to get the five. But at least three years of tax returns you want three years of profit and loss statements. Now a profit and loss statement is a collection of everything for the whole year, the revenue, the cash flow, the inventory, all the money in and all the money out, essentially, is what the profit and loss is. And then you want the year to date statement. So a year to date statement is just the profit and loss from January 1 to whatever date you ask for it. So you can, you know, because last year might have been great, but this year could have started off, and they're just down in a downward spiral. Something is going on. And maybe you know you want to know, you want up to date financial information. And once you get that information, the first thing you want to do is you want to check the profit, the cash flow number, against the tax return, and make sure that those things match and and I think I probably the next time we do a business acquisition, I will go over that. We'll we'll look at some numbers. I have some, some of from the current business, I can just blur out the things that are I don't know that they don't want me talking about the names and addresses and things like that. And then we can, we can show how that stuff matches up, because then if it matches up, then you know these numbers in the spreadsheet are correct. And then if, you know, you can actually do a letter of intent, you can, you know, start looking at lenders, you can start taking the next steps. But if the numbers don't match, that's that's a deal breaker. That means they're they're hiding something, they're doing something incorrect. But there's sometimes the numbers don't match, but that's because of add backs. They might have a leased car or they have a big salary, but we'll look into that, and I can, I can show you the the reasons that are not bad, reasons why those numbers wouldn't match, but they should still, when you add the stuff back in, should still get you that cash flow number.

Unknown Speaker  49:02
Okay, cool. So I.
