Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is July 18, 2025 and tonight we're going to be back into the business acquisition curriculum. And what I wanted to do was kind of go into a success story. You know, I get asked a lot in lives and just in general, like, how many have any of the people in the community actually bought a business, you know, have they, have they purchased a business like, or do you have any success stories? So, so I really like to share this stuff, because I think it's important, because there are a lot of people out there that are just, they'll have a mentorship or something, and they won't really help people. They give them a packet of information and some videos, and then that's it. So I I just want people to see that it's definitely, definitely possible to do this. So we're going to talk to alini, and if you can tell us a little bit about your deal of laundromat, how you found it, just like some of the numbers, and maybe a little bit about your background too, sure.

Speaker 2  01:18
Yeah, so we found that deal may 22 just, actually, I just started following you on Tiktok, and you had mentioned, like, look at biz, buy, sell for businesses that are for sale and all the stuff and so, like, that was probably, like, three or four days before I found this deal and that week. So I have invested in a set of apartment complex with a certain couple and a couple own laundromats in San Diego. So she had reached out to me and said, hey, somebody else in our group is looking at a laundromat in Houston. Do you want to go in or, like, listen to the deal. And I'm like, Sure. And that was like, Wednesday. So we had a call on Thursday, and I invited my sister, who's also my business partner on multiple businesses, with me, into into that call, and she started telling us about the laundromat in Houston. And then sometime during the call, I told them, hey guys, I found one in Cottonwood. Let me send you the deal. And like, two hours after we got off, the call, she's like, This is amazing. The numbers are amazing. It was purchased just for the laundromat, not for the building. So it's $325,000

Unknown Speaker  02:37
the cash flow on it was $125,000

Speaker 2  02:40
a year. So the money, the percentages, looked really good. So the next day, they went ahead and put an offer in, and the broker had received over 100 offers in that first 24 hours. I actually found it within 24 hours of the posting randomly. So I kind of say it was like a God thing that I randomly listened to your Tiktok. And then that happened, because what are the odds, right? And then they put the offer in. Within 24 hours, she accepted the offer. We went under due diligence, and we started investigating the numbers and the broker, because the laundromat owner kind of had, like a brain injury or something. So she told the staff she was selling it, like, two weeks later, which was a big no no. And the broker was really upset about that, because a lot of times you'll lose employees during the transaction. So we went up there and we actually met all the employees, and I spent a lot of time with them, just consolidating them and talking to them and being like, Hey guys, we're cool. They have a laundromat like Steve's super cool. He run it. So in this deal, we have three different partners. All of us got 33% it's me and my husband. My sister has 33% and then our friends, Steve and Liz, who we have the apartment complex with, have 33% and we live in southern Arizona. They live in Flagstaff, so they're actually going to operate it, we're going to pay them 9% of the gross sales to operate it, so they'll get a percentage just for the operation, and then we'll split all the distributions after that.

Speaker 1  04:15
Okay, how'd you come up with the 9% was that, did you guys negotiate that we

Speaker 2  04:20
did negotiate that they wanted. They wanted seven and a half percent. Oh, no, they wanted, oh, we're doing 9% of net. Initially, they wanted 12 and a half percent of gross. And they wanted mileage. And they wanted, if they had to go over two times a week, it was like $50 an hour rate to go down there. And we took that off, we took the mileage off, and then we we ended up settling at 9% of gross through the negotiation, which ends up to be around 29,000 a year, which is pretty fair. You know, if you have to go down there twice a week, it's an hour and 10 minute drive from his house, plus he's going to do all the mechanical. Repairs and all they're going to do, all the financials and stuff. So it just, it was a back and forth on negotiation, on that,

Speaker 1  05:08
okay, is it just a laundromat? Does it have a wash and fold or anything like that?

Speaker 2  05:13
It's, they don't pick up and delivery. They have the or they have the drop off and pick up. They don't have any delivery service right now. And Liz and Steve, who has, who have two in San Diego that have a huge delivery one, they're like, We don't know if we want to do a delivery service, so that's something we're not looking at yet. Like, we're going to, you know, we got the change machine in there. We got what else do we put in there. Oh my gosh, sorry, you guys. It's been a really long day. Camera System, the change machine, once we kind of do the operations, once we kind of get everything up to speed where we want it, we're going to do a renovation. We're going to put in some bigger loads, some 80 loaders in there. Once we do all of that, then if we want to develop the pickup and delivery, we will, but they're not super keen on it, and we kind of are leaning on their experience. They just don't think in that town it's going to do great. So we'll see. I'm totally open if we end up doing it down the line. But for now, I think we're just going to actually revamp the state the space, do some renovations, but we're actually going to wait until we go to the wash and fold show in Orlando in August. We're all flying out there for the laundromat show. We're going to look at some new machines, look at the credit card swiper, different POS systems that you can put on each washer and do all that stuff. It's going to be a huge investment before we go into that. So kind of, kind of, that stuff,

Speaker 1  06:45
okay, first is priority. So the machines that are in there, now, do you know how old they are?

Speaker 2  06:50
So crazy enough, I do. I have, I have a sheet with all the ages on there. They're, like, 12 years old. But these machines look five years old because this lady's, like, was so OCD and all her employees absolutely love her and her employees are our employees are amazing. We actually did lose one in the transition, but it's a good thing. But the machines, her clean protocol, was better than Steve and Liz's, who have had laundromats for like, 10 years. So they actually taught them something, which was really neat. So yeah, those machines. And the crazy thing is, she was so organized, she even had a log on each machine, on each mechanical repair or anything that they had. But the machines don't even look five years old. It's crazy. So I think the life on the ones that are in there are a lot longer than most machines that you would buy at 12 years old, because of the maintenance protocol and the cleaning protocol and the draining protocol that she has.

Speaker 1  07:44
Okay, okay, so as far as financing, what did you look into? What did you actually end up doing to finance this deal?

Speaker 3  07:53
So I put the C in creative. I have no shame.

Unknown Speaker  07:58
So we my

Speaker 2  08:02
hairdresser's mom loaned me $50,000 on a hard money interest only loan for part of it. So I only had to come up with like $83,000 each of us had had to come up with a 75 for the initial thing. And then we decided we need 25,000 to buy the change of machines the cameras get, you know, just day to day business stuff to get it started. So I needed to come up with $83,333.33 so I was like, Okay, I got, like, maybe 25,000 myself in the bank right now, because I just bought some duplexes, like six months ago. That wiped me out, which was another hard money loan that my best friend's best friend loaned me $90 just on a promissory note. So I'm the queen of just ask. I have no shame. I ask anybody if they lend me money. It's like, hey. Sometimes people say, Yes, I do have a good track record. I'll say that. And I have a good reputation. I have a lot of companies, so people know I'm like, good for it. So anyways, my hairdresser's mom, who I used to spend the night at her house in seventh grade and prank call people and like, be like, Hey, is your refrigerator running? You better go after it. Loan me $50,000 for six months so, but so that's how I got the financing. I do have, like, a strip mall with like 22 tenants that I'm refinancing right now. It should close end of July, early August, and once I do that, I'll have the money to pay her back. So as soon as I get that, I already paid her all the interest up front, and just was like, it's due in December. I'll see you before December, and I'll give you the 50,000 back. So that's how I got financing for this one.

Speaker 1  09:23
Okay, okay, so the other, the other partners, they just, they brought cash. Is what they did.

Speaker 2  09:31
Yeah, my sister's, oh yeah. My sister has so many funds, too many funds. She's usually my financer. But I'm trying to not, I'm trying to break my own codependency with my family, with financing and and, like, spread my wings. So that's kind of what I'm doing now, is like exercising my Ask button, and I'm really interested to look at the capital stacking and stuff, but I couldn't have done that on this deal anyways, because I'm in the midst of that refinancing and I have to use my credit so I can't ding it. So that wouldn't have worked. Anyways, I. Um, my my husband probably could have done it. He has really good credit too. He probably got a capital stack, but we probably couldn't have done it quick enough. We probably could have done it with one of our other companies, honestly, because we get a ton of credit card first. But anyways, it worked out this way. Okay? And Steve and Liz borrowed it from their dad. I we went up there to Flagstaff to stay at their house, and I'm like, I'm borrowing from my hairdresser's mom. We're just busting up laughing in the kitchen making dinner. And she's like, I borrowed it from my dad. I was like, well, at least I broke my codependency this time. It was

Speaker 1  10:29
really funny. So, wow. Okay, well, that, yeah, that's a, that's a creative way. What would So, okay, so what was your term? What was your interest only on the hard money. I'm curious.

Unknown Speaker  10:41
Oh, 10% 10 Okay, so $2,500
