Speaker 1  00:03
Okay, everybody, welcome to the money Language Academy. This week, we're going to be doing a credit course. We're going to talk about the importance of credit, just general credit report, kind of things, the difference between personal credit, business credit, how to obtain business credit, and just how crucial it can be to whether a deal goes through or doesn't get this going. Can everybody see? Let's see. What do you see right now? Do you see the two screens or one?

Unknown Speaker  00:52
See two slides? You probably do that's backwards.

Unknown Speaker  00:57
Hold on, technical difficulties.

Speaker 1  01:09
Okay, does everybody just see the big white understanding business and personal credit scores? Yes. Okay, cool, so that's what we're going to be talking about tonight. It's probably seems like it, it might be straightforward, but what I've found over the years, with credit, is there's a lot of hidden knowledge and little tricks that people who have been doing this kind of stuff for a while, they all seem to know about it, and nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody wants to let you, like regular people in on the secret. So that's exactly what I want to do. So what we're going to talk about is the importance of credit scores, why it really matters, but at the same time, why it doesn't matter if you have like, an 820 you know, people talk they say, Well, I've got an 820 or I've got an 810 credit score. Why? That does not really make any difference. Once you hit a certain point, you get over seven, you get 725. 750, anything above that doesn't matter. And really it just tells me that you're not using your credit to gain wealth, right? Because if you're using your credit consistently in the right way, you're pretty much going to stay in the sevens. It's not to say it's a bad thing. I mean, lenders love it when you have eight something, but it doesn't have to be that high. Don't stress on getting it to that level. And we're gonna talk about the difference between personal and business credit score and why that's huge, and how it's easy to thrash your personal credit in an attempt to get business credit. So I think everybody's familiar with your personal credit score, right? We've got Experian and Credit Karma check that thing all the time. It's giving, sending us notifications when things change, and trying to get you to get credit cards through their app, like, all that kind of stuff. It's it's big business, the higher your credit score is, like, if it's in the seven hundreds, you're going to get, you know, better options for loans, mortgages. You're going to get lower interest rates. You're going to get less loan penalty, like penalties, but processing fees and all that kind of stuff, all that hidden stuff that gets written into your mortgage or to your loan, all that stuff gets reduced because you're a prime candidate to pay that money back. Because what lenders don't want is they don't want you to pay it off early because they don't make as much money, and they don't want you to default because they don't make as much money. They want to string you out for the full term of the loan and squeeze you for money the whole time. That's like their their favorite thing to do. It maximizes their income. So what is in your personal credit score? Is this mix right here. So it's 35% payment history, 30% utilization, and what that means. I mean, everybody knows what payment history is. It's like, Did you pay on time? How long have you paid off credit cards? Did you miss any payments where you know you've got a mark on your record, stuff like that? Okay, let me see why is my metal stuff? Hold on, hey? Shane, yeah, I see somebody in the waiting room, right? Let me let them in. Okay, go back to it. Is that what you were saying? Somebody was waiting. Shane, I was just going to say, can you hear me? Okay, yes, on the credit utilization, just to make a point, because it looked like you were trying to do something in the background. So I was just going to mention this, I paid off my truck loan last week. My credit score dropped 30% or 30 points. So you talk about that credit utilization of 30% I pay off the loan and it hurts my credit. Yeah. So, so that's that's not because of the utilization. So what you what that is, is your your open lines of credit. So what So utilization is say you have all your credit cards equal $10,000

Unknown Speaker  05:27
if you have less than 3000

Speaker 1  05:30
as a cumulative charge, cumulative debt on that against that 10,000 then you have a favorable score. Anything over 30% starts to count against you. Now the same thing happened to me. What you're saying, we paid off our house and my credit score dropped. It wasn't a lot, but it was like 15 or 20 something like that. You'd think something big like that a milestone that, you know, it would jump up. I mean, that's a that's a huge thing. But what it was is it was one less open line of credit. So that is also part, and that's the credit mix. That's that category. So eventually, you know your your score will rebound. It won't take it long to get back where it was. But yeah, that's that's exactly what that is, is because you have less lines of credit in your credit mix. Okay? And then the credit history length is, you know, all of your cards, however long you've had them, if you've had, like, personal loans that you've been paying on for 10 years, a car loans you've been paying on for four like, they average all of that together, and whatever that number is, it goes into the algorithm and it spits out a weight or your overall score. So I always tell people, if you have an old card that you don't use and it's not there's no penalties on it. There's no like, yearly fees keep it open, even if you don't use it. Now, you might want to put, like, charge something on there once in a great while and pay it off immediately. Just so they don't close it on you. But old cards really help your credit score, because especially what we're going to talk about at the end of this is getting business credit and capital stacking. And if you're looking to get business credit, you can't have what they call a young credit. It needs to be seasoned. So just remember that on those old cards, try to keep them open if as long as you're not paying fees on them. And then lastly is credit inquiries. Now it's not soft credit inquiries, but hard pulls on your credit, which that comes from a lot of cards. Credit Cards will do it, you know, they'll say they don't, and they you, they'll take you through the process, and they don't when they tell you, maybe how much of a limit they'll give you. But then as soon as you say yes, a lot of times, that's when they'll do a hard pull. And mortgages, car loans, personal loans, anything that's that's a substantial, you know, line of credit, you're going to get a hard inquiry, and those hard inquiries stay on your your credit for two years. They're supposed to fall off after two years. But there's ways around that too. So that overall mix is what makes up your score. It's not what makes up your profile, necessarily, but your, your profile is, like, what I was saying, like, it's how long your how old your cards are it? They'll look at some history, like, how many things you paid off, like that truck that you paid off, Craig, that that would be good for your credit profile. Additionally, there, there are things on there, like, Do you have a national credit card? What's the limit of your your biggest card? I mean, all that kind of stuff. If they know that, if you know another bank trusted you with a $25,000 limit, and you've been responsible with that, then you know you're more likely to get a $50,000 limit because you've already shown that you'll pay it off you won't, you know, charge a whole bunch of stuff and then run to Mexico or something. Okay. Is there anybody have any questions about just the components of your personal credit score?

Speaker 2  09:14
Yes. Shane, I do have a question. Okay. Um, so I have a card that I have not been using and I just got a message that is going to be closed. Is that something bad for me, or should I? Is it an

Speaker 1  09:29
old card? Yes, an old card, yeah, if you can get them to not close that, are there any annual fees on it?

Speaker 2  09:36
Oh, definitely. But it's not even about the fees, just me staying away from critical, okay?

Speaker 1  09:42
I mean, even if you could put like the next time you fill your car up with gas, if you just use that card and pay it off immediately, just to keep it active, okay? Because, because you'll get, you'll get two hits on that, you'll have less overall credit, which will make your utilization go out for whatever you do owe. So your credit history length is going to go down, because that's an old card that was probably helping that history length. And then just, you're just your overall lines of credit also will be reduced, which is your your credit mix. So, yeah, if you can, you're better off to keep that open for sure.

Unknown Speaker  10:20
All right, thank you.

Speaker 1  10:24
Okay, so now that we've said what this stuff is made up of, I just want you to know that every one of those things that we just talked about is fixable if you know how to do it. So the big one, which is your on time payments, if you if you have some charge offs, things like that, where it shows that you know you didn't pay on time and they had to come after you, or anything, went to collections like that kind of stuff that can actually be removed if you know what you're doing. It's not an easy process, and it takes some time and some patience, but those things can be knocked off there. I'm pretty sure. Now, I haven't done it myself, but I'm pretty sure older bankruptcies can also be removed with a similar system. I'm going to find out about that because somebody asked me that this week, and I want to make sure before I say with 100% certainty, that those can be removed, but I know for sure that charge offs collections, there's some tricks that can be done to remove those. Now the utilization, the best thing you can do is pay just pay down the cards to get under that 30% and really you get even higher scores and benefit if you get under 10% so I use, I use credit cards to buy everything, but I pay them off immediately. The ones that have the best points and rewards are the ones that I use to purchase everything, and then with with my business credit. So if I have a, you know, one of my businesses is doing $850,000 of revenue a year. It's a lot of inventory that's being bought and moved around. So I use the credit card for all of that stuff. Everything, every bill is paid through the credit card, all the the inventory, everything comes out of that card, and it gets paid off immediately, but it just racks up points. So we get frequent flyer miles, we get money back, like, all that stuff is just extra money. So if you, if you do, get a business that's a that's a great strategy to get extra money on the side. I mean, it's, it's like, like eight, $8,000 worth of rewards and just money back, just for using that card, and it doesn't cost anything to use it. So, so yeah, that's so it's that utilization, pretty much you have to fix that. You either have to transfer that that to either you either get more cards to raise your limit, or you pay down certain cards, or you transfer it to business credit. So if you get a business credit card for, say, $10,000 you can for a fee. You know, the card company will charge you a fee, but you can transfer that credit over there. Now you're still personally guaranteeing that you're going to pay for it, but you don't take a hit on your personal utilization. So that's like, that's a trick there that a lot of people use too, and your credit age. You can artificially inflate that by adding someone that has old credit. So if your spouse, your parents, siblings, things like that, will just add you to the account and say, I don't even want to you know, you tell them, I don't even want a card. I just want you to add me so that my credit profile improves, my credit score improves like I don't want a card, I'll never use it, but you get the benefit of their good payments and their credit history. Now be careful, though, that you pick you choose wisely who you ask to do that, because if they have some issues with their credit that could translate to your score, and that could hurt you too. Now the inquiries, if you have a bunch of inquiries from the last two years, those can be removed fairly easily, and especially any inquiry that if you try to apply for a loan or a card and you were denied. Those are the easiest ones to remove.

Unknown Speaker  14:23
Does that make sense to everybody?

Speaker 1  14:32
Okay, yeah, that does cool. So, yeah, it's not the it's not the end. You know, if you've got some score problems right now, it is definitely fixable,

Unknown Speaker  14:45
okay, now,

Speaker 1  14:51
building and improving your personal credit, so obviously, from this point forward, everybody should be making on time payments like if you can, I know. That times get tough. But if you can turn on, you know, auto pay on any of that stuff, it's just, it just saves it from ever being an issue, you know, at least, at least turn on the minimum payment so you don't get late payments, you know. And most of the time the minimum payment is very, very low. So you just want to try to avoid any new late payments, and just because you have 10,000 in credit on your personal credit doesn't mean you should use it always keep it below 30% don't apply for a bunch of cards in the near future, especially personal cards, because every single one of those will will take down your score, and then you can any if you go to your credit report and if you see anything that is incorrect, you definitely want to dispute those now you can do all that stuff on your own from this point forward to make sure that you're doing the right thing. And as far as disputes, you can dispute them. Right on Credit Karma, right on Experian doesn't cost any money. You go on there and say, well, this isn't even me, or this didn't happen, or whatever, and just start that process. Okay, now let's talk about a business credit score. And I want to, I want to preface this with, there's a lot of bad information on Tiktok and YouTube and lemonade, wherever you're out, are on social media where they're saying that you can get business credit, where you don't personally guarantee it, you get all this money and then you can just buy a car and never pay it back. It's not true, that stuff now, five years ago, it was kind of a thing. You could get a Dun and Bradstreet number, which Dun and Bradstreet is a credit bureau, just like Equifax and Experian and TransUnion are for your personal credit, Dun and Bradstreet is only for business credit. Now, for a while, you get a Dun and Bradstreet number, you could start charging, you know, like rolling some money in and out of that card and and get business credit, and then you could go to a bank and get a big card from that that you didn't have to personally guarantee that the that your business was guaranteeing. So what happened is people ruined that they started getting a bunch of credit and then they filed bankruptcy, or just the business would file bankruptcy, and then, you know, they have that car, you know, they go buy a brand new truck with that credit, the business files bankruptcy, and then they still have the truck like that was kind of the scam for a while, and so now you cannot do that. That's why your personal credit score matters so much these days. Is because you know it's required before you can move on to business credit. But business credit is your ultimate goal if you want to try to use it to finance a down payment. Okay? Does that make sense to everybody? Everybody on board?

Unknown Speaker  18:03
Yeah, yeah. Cool. Okay.

Speaker 1  18:07
Now, what are the factors that that impact your business credit? So it's very similar to your personal credit, where it's about the history you know you want on late payments and stuff like that. If you have net 30 accounts, which means that you have a set up a relationship with a vendor where they give you a certain amount of inventory, or it could be services, and you pay at the end of every month, and you pay on time. That looks really good. Credit utilization is not as big a deal. The numbers are much higher, but it still factors in a little bit. And then the longevity of the business is less important too. But this one I want everybody to remember, this one, is industry risk. So when you start an LLC, for instance, one of the first things you have to do when you start that LLC is you have to pick an n, a, i, c, code, the next code, and that that's where you're choosing, what industry that your business is going to be in, and there are some that you want to stay away from, trucking, real estate, anything that has to deal with weapons, I would you know, it's pretty straightforward, Like anything that you would consider to be high risk, you want to, you do not want to pick that. So you want to pick things like consulting doesn't matter. I mean, like, whatever it actually is, but if you're in a high what you or like you have a liquor store that's high risk, you have to, you have to be careful, because it's hard to get credit in those kind of industries, and then the public records where if you have any liens, you have bankruptcies, there are judgments against you for not paying anything that hurts. But what a big portion of this credit utilization is not as important, so that 30% does not apply. Apply to business credit. So you can, you can take those cards up to 80 and 90% and it does not affect the business credit score, and it never affects your personal score. So if you, if you think about that, like, how are people getting all this funding through business credit? That's how it is. If you get a $10,000 card, you can actually pull seven, eight, sometimes $9,000, out of that to be able to go after a business with it. So that's the difference, and it doesn't affect your that that score, and it never affects your personal credit score when you do that. Now, if you don't ever pay it back and there, then it's going to start affecting you because you personally guaranteed it. But the days of non personal guaranteed business credit are over. Okay? So how do you start getting business credit and then building it? It's very similar to a regular credit card, you know, you start your LLC, which gives you an EIN. If you don't know an EIN is, it's just your your tax number with the IRS. So when you file taxes for that LLC, or if, like a lot of times, somebody will want, if you do work for somebody your company does, they'll request a w9 because they're going to report that on their taxes, like all that, your is ein based. If you want to start a business checking account or business savings account or get a credit card, you have to have an EIN and then the DUNS number, that's DUNS and Bradstreet. You can do that, but I consider that to be a waste of time at this point. You don't have to do that. You that. So once you get once you get your your EIN you can open bank accounts. You can start to get some lines of credit. You can get trade lines with vendors like those net 30 accounts. If you can find vendors that still do that, which it's few and far between these days. And then you just want to keep the debt manageable for a little while, to show a little bit of a history of paying on time, and then that'll start opening doors for you. So one of the main reasons why businesses fail is lack of funding. And if you are thinking about buying a business, and you know, we're buying established businesses in this community. That's that's part of what we're doing. But there's a few months at the beginning where there's a handoff period and you're going to have to pay employees, you're going to have to pay expenses, and you have to be ready in case something happens, so that you can keep the business moving forward and just cover that until the money starts cycling in, and then everything's paid down. That's where credit becomes hugely important. If you go even one week at the beginning of an acquisition and you miss a day to pay your employees, or something like that, they're going to get really spooked. And what you don't want to happen is you don't want your employees to run off on you because they're scared you're not going to be able to pay them. So credit business, credit cards, lines of credit, can help you through any of those hard times and make sure that you know that your business is stable. The employees are happy. You have inventory, you have everything you need to continue to make money, because at the end of the day, that's the name of the game. And then it's very important, because you're separating that personal and business so your your personal credit is just used as a model to get you business credit, and at that point, you're not even caring about your personal credit so much. You're building the business credit. And then, yeah, you're building credibility with lenders and suppliers by getting those bank accounts, moving money in and out of checking accounts for national banks, and after you do that for a little while, it becomes very easy to get funding, and you'd be surprised how much funding you get. And business credit comes at higher limits than personal credit, generally, a business credit card with 50 to $75,000 on it is not as rare as you think. It's rare for personal credit, but for a business that is showing, you know, a lot of revenue, it's not a big deal. So so here should be the plan if you have credit issues, number one thing on your personal credit is you need to fix those issues, or get help fixing those issues. Get rid of all that negative stuff and start building a solid credit profile so you can actually go after business cards and business funding. The cool another cool another cool thing about business funding is the way that you get it, as long as you get it the right way, with the right cards, most of them come with 12 months no interest, sometimes 18 months no interest, depending on your your credit profile. So that means you could get a. $100,000 in business credit. You can use up to 90, you know, upwards of 90, but definitely 70 or $80,000 of that and buy a business and not have to pay anything other than the bare minimum payment with no interest for a whole year, or sometimes 18 months. So gives you a head start where you can, you can get the business up and running, or you could if, even if it's not a business, if you want to do fix and flips on real estate, something like that, like you've got no interest funding, where you can fund the rehab and sell the house before any of that stuff really even comes due. You're not paying any interest on it. And anybody that's been in real estate for any amount of time knows that one of the most expensive things to get is a bridge loan or a fix and flip loan, because their interest only and is really high interest, and it can kill your profits if, if a you know, takes just a little bit longer than you think. So, business credit is what a lot of fix, like flippers are using right now to to fund those deals. So, yeah, Repair Credit, build and strengthen your profile, and then go after the funding.

Unknown Speaker  26:15
Okay, so

Speaker 1  26:21
I know that was a lot, so I'm sorry if I went, if I maybe went too fast, but it's a lot of stuff. Are there any questions

Unknown Speaker  26:33
about the stuff that we just went over?

Speaker 1  26:39
I'm gonna I'm not going to ask on the recording, but afterwards, I'm going to ask everybody what their score is. And so if you don't do, does everyone know what their score is? At first off, if you don't know, you can go to, I think it's my free score calm, and you can check it if you don't have Credit Karma or Experian or something on your phone. So you can, you can definitely do that and be prepped, ready. Danielle, did you have a question?

Speaker 3  27:12
Yes, I'm sorry. I'm in class right now. So classes at one time, that's amazing. Yeah. And you know, let me tell you about alignment. I swear to God, like we're talking about business funding. I'm in an entrepreneurship class through my doctorate program, and I swear to you, like it's like we're talking about credit and stuff, and I'm like, How did God know? Like, I don't know. That's why I know I'm in the right place at the right time, but the I had two questions. One was about just, do you know of any like preferred commercial banks that we should be eyeballing for establishing bank accounts and pursuing credit? I know I've used Bank of America and I've had success with them. I have not no issues with them, but maybe. And there's another one that I need to be looking at. And then also, my second question is, for business acquisitions, should we be having separate entities for each acquisition, or are we kind of having one entity serve as a I don't know, like a place to kind of for all of them, I don't know.

Speaker 1  28:23
Okay, so you're the second question there. I'm going to, I'm going to wait to answer that on the Q and A, if that's okay, but I'm going to write it down. So the first question was the credit related one, and that was a good one. Is Chase. Chase goes out of their way to beat other banks and what they'll give you. And it's like a courtship on this. If you're, if you're just trying to, if you want to try to do it yourself, there's a lot of ways you can mess it up. There are, but there, if you're patient and you have, like, kind of a broad time horizon. You're not like you're not you're not trying to buy something really soon, all what you do is take anywhere from 500 to $5,000 and put it in a business checking account at Chase, and then move money in and out, you know, pay some things out of there, move some more money in. You know, just show a consistent it doesn't have to be a lot, but maybe, like, three purchases and three deposits per month for about 60 to 90 days. So you're just already establishing that you're willing to use their bank, their bank, that you do have money cycling through the account. And what they're going to do that's the first thing they're going to look at, is they're going to go look at, okay, are you using us because they want to keep your all your money in house, and you already have shown that you have money going in and out, and they will give you a much higher limit on that first card, and kind of set you on a good path going forward. So. So that's a that's a good way to start it. And Chase is a really good one too. Another good one is truest. Truest is also a good one. But I know for sure that that Chase now, this is not something that I'm like a big expert in. I have done it and I've done it the slow way. I haven't done it like, you know, so I'll go ahead and make the announcement now, because we just talked about it. So I talked to a friend of mine. He's the best that I know in business credit. He just got him. He's gotten $250,000 in business credit. He started off, I think it was at the last year, like late last year or middle last year, he had a five something credit score. Now he's at 750 with $250,000 in business credit. So this stuff is totally possible. And so I talked to him, he's he's willing to help people out in the community at a drastically reduced rate. If you need credit repair or you want a capital stack for the big money, then he's a good one to use. So everybody that I've so to get into the rates that people charge usually credit repairs like $150 a month. It takes four to six months, which it's not a it's not a fast process. There's no one out there if you have some really bad things on your credit, no one's going to be able to fix that quickly. So be prepared for that. It takes some months to fix it. But so they usually charge like 150 to $200 a month for six months, for capital stacking. The industry standard is, is 10% so if you get $100,000 in credit, they're going to charge you $10,000 I have never seen any of them that are lower than like 9.5% it's the lowest that I've seen so far. Now they this company is willing to as long as you say that you're from this community, to do your credit repair for a total of 500 and do the capital stacking based on what your credit profile currently is and how much time they would have to put into it. But the most you would pay is 8% but more like six or seven, depending on the time. So I don't know if people are interested in that. It's something that you want to do, but I don't know. I was just really excited to just be able to save people money if that's what they want to do. Because if you go on Tiktok to like true Finco, or one of those companies, like that blonde lady that's always talking about capital stacking, I know you guys, if you've been in business talk for a long time, you know who I'm talking about, and they charge 10% off the top, plus they leave your personal credit jacked up with a whole bunch of hard inquiries and stuff. So the company that I'm talking about not only will get you the business credit, but they'll remove all the hard inquiries off so your personal credit is not affected. So, and that's where none of these companies are doing that. So if somebody's interested in that, it's available, or you can do it on your own. You know you can not saying that you can't do it on your own, but please, please be careful, because it's easy to mess up your credit. Okay, so definitely be careful. So, but yeah, I wanted to make that announcement for sure, and we'll talk about that a little bit more in the Q and A but, yeah, that's like our first partnership from the community. It's already right, you seen the people that have been answering questions in the community, and now we have some more resources. And that's all because we've all come together, and I was able to kind of broker this thing like, Hey, I have a lot of people that are serious about doing stuff, give us a discount, and he's willing to do that, and he's very good. So, yeah, it's awesome. Does anybody else have any credit related questions. No, okay, so let me, let me turn the recording off and.
