Speaker 1  00:00
How can you buy a business with no money down? There's a misconception that people have that you need a bunch of money to buy a business. That is not the case. As a matter of fact, one of my community members was contacted by a business broker. Shout out to George, and they presented him with an opportunity where he could buy an established restaurant, one that's been around for decades in the Orlando, Florida area. And not only was the business no down payment, but it was free. They are looking to find someone to just turn the business over to that person. They want to retire. They want to be out of it so much that for personal reasons, and even more than that, because the business is older, they're willing to give the buyer $100,000 to take over the business. So not only is there an opportunity to buy and take over this business for zero money, but also to get $100,000 for the transition and to renovate. So there are opportunities involved. There are opportunities that exist. You just have to go out and look and network and know where to find them. Now, this is a very unique situation, and maybe it's too good to be true. But people, this is possible. This is possible. You have to network, and you have to figure it out. But you could buy a business with no money. If you want to learn how to find opportunities like this, you want to learn how to network. You want to learn how to find a business. Vet the business, know if it's a good deal and actually close on the business, then I suggest you join the money Language Academy. I have bought at this point, nine different businesses. I've been doing it for the last almost five years, and it has completely changed my life and the community itself. We have had multiple success stories, people buying HVAC companies, people buying laundromats. Been there, done that. So we've taken people from not understanding how to buy a business, or what even takes to be able to get funding, to get credit repair, to understand what it takes to buy a business. So if you want to learn how to do this, join the money Language Academy. Click the link in my bio, watch some of the videos, see if it's right for you.
