Speaker 1  00:00
Hang out and retire. So we worked out a deal with owner financing, and I put $5,000 down on a business that makes me $10,000 profit a month from from that, that $5,000 investment. And I knew right then and there that I was on the wrong path. I was looking for cash flow in the wrong place. Cash flow comes from businesses. Is it so easy to get a business that cash flows and real estate is for long term appreciation tax benefits? So once I figured that out, I was able to start buying businesses that are established and ready to go in the cash flow on day one, and then pay them off quickly, because I bought the right business, and then take that pure cash flow that's left over and then buy real estate. And then when the real estate matures and it's paid off, you can move that money back. You can get a loan, right, because that's what that's what wealthy people do, is they leverage debt to make more money, so you can get a loan on that real estate and buy more businesses, and you just keep shuffling that money back and forth as debt and not pay a dime in taxes on it. And your original investment that you bought that original business for, you know you might you can put 10% down through an SBA loan to buy a business. So if you buy $100,000 business, you can put $10,000 down, and you can pay that loan off in less than two years, if you get the right business, and then you've got $100,000 in a year to put in real estate. So obviously it takes longer to pay the real estate down. But if you buy the right one, you buy something that you can add value to, especially if you buy a not a small multifamily, but a larger multifamily, which is five units or more, it's easy to do value adds and bump the rents and refinance that thing and pull money out and buy another business. And it's like no one was talking about these things on this platform. They're talking about Section eight because they want you to buy their stupid course in order to get a bunch of Section eights, or they want you to pay them for leads. There's, there's a whole bunch of thing, right? So, but, and I know I think somebody said something about I'm not debt leveraging, or I'm free of debt, or whatever, well, you're not going to get ahead. I'll tell you that right now. You Yeah, you can live a comfortable life with no debt, but you're not going to level up like you can with debt. Wealthy people leverage debt, and that's because you don't pay taxes on debt.
