Speaker 1  00:01
Let's talk about laundromats for just a second. Okay, everybody is so up on laundromats, and I get it, it's generally a good business. It's very absentee. You don't have to worry about payroll. You don't have to worry about complex tax situations. And there's, there's a lot of benefits to laundromats. However, not all laundromats are good deals. So let's look at this laundromat right here. This laundromat in particular. It's in mid Missouri. These people bought this laundromat for, I think, 92 or 93,000 in 2020 they got a seller, finance deal. You know, all those things seem really good. They it was this couple plus another couple. So like some friends, got together to buy this laundromat. But here's where they went wrong. They did not run the numbers. So this laundromat they bought for, let's just call it $90,000 it brings in about $5,000 per month, okay, the expenses are about, I think it was 3600 Okay, the absolute maximum that this place makes is 1400 per month, okay? And that does not even include cleaning, okay? So one of these couples lived near the laundromat, and they agreed that they were going to do the cleaning, okay? And that would allow them to make some money. So they put, let's call it 90 grand into this deal for the possibility, if their partners did the cleaning to make about $700 per month. Okay, this is not worth it. It's not worth your time to deal with. It's not worth the note the seller financing and all that goes into setting up a business. And let me tell you this, I understand fear when it comes to buying a business. Fear makes you look at small businesses like this, where they're whether they're 90,000 75,000 50,000 because you think, okay, if everything goes terribly wrong, I can still deal with it. I get that. But here's what people don't realize, is that the amount of effort and the time that is required to actually set this business up and get it functioning the way it should is the same for just about all businesses. So would you rather put in a whole bunch of work to make possibly $700 extra a month? Or would you rather put in that same month to make 7000 per month? That is the difference. Now, these people, right here, these poor people, these two couples, bought this business in 2020, for 90 grand. Now they're selling it okay for $75,000.05 years later, they haven't made any money. They're stuck in this deal. This has been listed since February. They've got hundreds of inquiries, because people love laundromats, but no one has bought it, and that's because it's a bad deal. So you need to know what is a good deal and what is a bad deal. Just because it's a laundromat, just because there's so many people on this platform saying that laundromats are good deals, is very situational. Okay? You need to learn how to vet a business so you don't get into a bad deal. If that's something that you're interested in learning and you have questions about it, click the link in my bio. Check out the website. I have a bunch of free materials where you can learn this stuff. You can put a question on this post. I will answer it. Okay, don't let fear get you into a bad deal. All right, this is something that everyone can do. This is something that I started doing about four years ago by buying small businesses that were being sold by baby boomers, and it has completely changed my life. I never thought in a million years that my wife and I could have the financial freedom that we currently have, but by buying these small businesses, we're able to do whatever we want, whenever we want. But there's a system. There's a way to do this the right way. So if you want to learn that way, click the link in my bio, check everything out, and I'll help you learn how to do it the right way.
