Speaker 1  00:01
Hey everybody. It's Shane talking all things money and speaking the language of money. Today I want to talk about acquiring businesses, about specifically, just brokers, Business Brokers, I don't know why. So many of them are grimy, but they are,

Unknown Speaker  00:23
you know, it's like used car salesman.

Speaker 1  00:28
You everybody has this expectation when you go to a car lot, that they're crooks, right? And it's become this, like, accepted thing, and I think that's crazy, but a lot of the business brokers that I've talked to same thing, and business brokers are a lot different than than real estate agents and brokers. So with real estate, you have an agent listed, and you know they're going to get paid when you sell the place, right? That's when they get their money. They don't get paid per showing and all that stuff. Even though you know all this stuff going on with the settlement for realtors has changed some things but, but still, generally, they get paid when you get paid a broker is a little bit different. With a broker, they're actually making money every month, most of them just by listing your place and handling the inquiries and things like that. So they don't they're not as incentivized to sell. Yeah, they make more money when they sell, but they don't have to, so your business can sit on the websites for sale for a long time. And something else that I found is that

Unknown Speaker  01:44
when you talk to them, they're all sales.

Speaker 1  01:48
There's nothing I hate worse than talking to a salesman on the phone. They just talk talk, talk, talk, talk, and they're using all those Dale Carnegie How to Win Friends and Influence People tricks, and I hate that. Just talk to me, give me the numbers. I'm not buying this because, because my heart's in it, and I'm passionate about whatever business. No, I'm buying this business because I want to make money. I want to put money in it. I want to know the current state, and I want to figure out where I could take that to make money, and they oftentimes are an obstacle in them, and they're difficult to deal with, and sometimes they give you bad information. So here's my thing, for business brokers out there, why are you guys like this? Why does, why when I'm going on biz, buy, sell, or one of these platforms, and I see that it's listed by a broker, why does, why do I size guess I got to talk to this broker. It shouldn't have to be like that. Guys, step your game up. You.
