Speaker 1  00:00
When you start on the path towards financial freedom, what you're going to find is that your friends and family don't understand. They don't understand that you're making sacrifices right now to change your future and your family's future, that you're trying to level up, that you're trying to gain financial freedom to where you're not stuck under the boot of your boss for the rest of your life, and they're going to say things to you like, well, you need to have fun. Why are you being so tight? If I were you, I would do this, this and this. Well, let me tell you something. They are not you. They don't understand your mission, and if you listen to their advice, then you will become them. You will be in their situation. So don't listen to them. Listen to people that have been there, done that, that have accomplished the goals that you want to accomplish. Don't listen to Uncle Ted, who thought about getting real estate about 20 years ago and never did do your own thing, if you're passionate about real estate, if you're passionate about buying a business, about crypto, about stocks, whatever it is, and you're willing to put the work in and make the sacrifices to use that tool to create assets that bring cash flow into your family's household every month, then don't worry about what they're saying. Do you forget about what they're talking about. So if you want to learn about these things, if you want to learn about how to acquire a business to bring money into your household every month, how to use real estate to do the same thing, how to buy stocks, how to change your credit, whatever it is, follow me, subscribe and we can talk about these things. I'm not creating a course. I'm not charging people for this. I was in your same situation three years ago. I had $338 to my name. I didn't have a job, I didn't have a home, I didn't have a car. I was dead broke. Fast forward, three years later, I have a wonderful job that I absolutely love that brings me in so much money that I'm embarrassed to tell you how much money I have, a half a million dollar home that is completely paid for. I have started businesses. I have acquired businesses. I have short term rentals, long term rentals, multi families. I have been doing real estate for a while. I know how it works. I know how this process works. I know how people around you aren't going to understand the hard work that you're putting in. They're not going to understand what you're doing. But I do so when I was in your situation, I went off on these social media platforms, and I was looking for someone to help. I was looking for someone to teach me how to do the things that I'm doing now. And what I was finding is all these gurus that would funnel me toward their course that might cost 1000s of dollars. Well, that's not what I'm on if you want to learn these things, if you want to change your life, then ask me questions, join my lives. I will answer your questions. I'm not gatekeeping. I'm not selling a course. I'm not doing any of that. I'm just trying to get you from where you are to where I am. That the same thing that I wish that someone would have done for me three years so I didn't have to learn the hard way. So like and follow and let's do this together.
