Speaker 1  00:01
So I wanted to spend a little bit of time talking about the changes to the SBA that could potentially come up. So the new appointee as head of the Small Business Administration has put into place some proposals that could really affect business acquisitions moving forward. I think their their attempt is to stop people from buying businesses with with very little money down and and really they're they're trying to lower the default rate, but I don't think what they're doing is going to help the default rate. And trying, basically, to get the SBA to where it makes money instead of lose this money, which is fine and a noble cause, but I think it's kind of counterproductive. So let's go through some of the proposals. The one that's going to really hit hard on anybody that's trying to do eta, which is entrepreneurship through acquisition, is that in the previous administration, you could have an SBA loan where you bring 5% down, or actually you could bring 0% down, and the seller could do a two year note on the other 10% down payment. So essentially, you could buy a business with no money down, and what the seller would have to do is they would have to hold on to that note for two years. So they wouldn't charge you any interest or any payments for two years until you know you've already been paying the SBA for a while you've got your business up and running, and then you would start paying that note down. So with the changes that are being proposed, they're saying what they want to do is change that two years to 10 so the owner can still finance a portion upwards of 5% instead of 10% of that down payment. But they have to carry that for 10 years before they can charge you, and no seller is going to want to want to do that so that essentially just kills the down payment assistance if it goes into effect. The other thing that I think is really going to affect small business acquisition people is that,

Unknown Speaker  02:15
so right now, the way that it.
