Unknown Speaker  00:01
I just had someone join my live a

Speaker 1  00:04
couple of weeks ago, and they came from a mentorship. They were in a program that cost $10,000 a year for mentorship. And this mentorship is based on buying a small business, and I'm not going to mention the name. It's a very famous person on this platform and others, but so he had paid $10,000 and never spoken to the person that is behind the course, got some access to some limited resources and some some training, but really didn't, hadn't advanced his goal of buying a business. So I told him, I said, Hey, you know you can join our community, and you'll get access to all my resources. You'll get access to me. You'll get you'll be able to every week, to get the live class, to ask questions in the mentorship Q and A, and you know you're actually going to make headway in this. You're going to move towards your goal and your dream of buying a small business. So he did. He joined the community for $1 a day, got access to the resources, and he was completely shocked. Like, our resources are better. We have more of them. He's learned more in the last two weeks of being in the money Language Academy than he has in months of being in this expensive mentorship. So I've been on a crusade to try to help people to buy a business and to gain financial freedom like I have. You know, I've I've done it myself. I'm not out here posting 10 times a day, doing interviews and motivational speeches and all of that bullshit. What I'm doing is teaching people how to do this. I'm not particularly smart. I just persevere and I'm tenacious when it comes to getting my finances together. I wanted a future for myself and I wanted a future for my family, so that's what I've been working towards. In the last three years. I went from completely broke, I had $338 to my name, to being completely financially free. I've been able to buy two personal homes. I've bought four investment properties since then, since then, four investment properties with the cash flow from the business, none of my own money. So that's not to mention the real estate that I've been able to buy, just in general. You know, I've got, I've been there, and I've done that. So I don't post a whole lot like these gurus do, but what I do is I put time into my community. I put time into the folks that are really try and change their life. So if you don't want to pay $10,000 excuse me, if you don't want to waste $10,000 or 3000 or 2000 or whatever, you can join the money language community. You can get all my resources. You can speak directly to me, and it's $1 a day, $1 a day. So if that's something you're interested in, you know, like and follow. Click the link in my bio. I'd love to show you how that I was able to go from broke to financially free in three years. Now. Let me just say this as a caveat. I'm looking for people who are ready to take action. I'm looking for people who are not just dreamers, but are ready to be doers. So if that fits you, if you're sick of going from paycheck to paycheck, if you're sick of being beholden to a boss or a job that you don't like,

Unknown Speaker  03:33
come see me. We'll figure it out. You.
