Speaker 1  00:00
Hey everybody. Shane, how you doing? I want to talk today a little bit about long term rentals. So long term rentals means a lot of different things. You know, it's anywhere from a single family home to small multifamily, which is one to four units, or anything that's five units or more, is considered large multifamily. And the distinction there is important because it affects your financing. One to four units, you can get a single family home, a duplex, triplex, quad Plex with traditional residential financing, anything that's five units or more, you have to get a commercial loan to get that the terms are different. The way that you crunch the numbers, everything's completely different. So there's a big difference there, but I want to talk about just long term rentals in general. So right now, even the interest rates have come down a little bit, but they juiced right back up where they were. They're around the sevens. And, you know, investment loans, you end up paying about a point higher for an investment loan and business loans as well. So it's kind of tough to find a deal that pencils, and it's very tough to find a deal on a single family home, at least in the Midwest right now, that actually can, can make some money without a large down payment. You know, obviously you can make anything cash flow if you put enough money into it up front. So if you're buying $150,000 single family home and you put 100,000 in it, obviously that cash flow, because you just dropped 100 grand into it. But who wants to tie up that much capital into a single family home that, you know, it will appreciate over the years, and it helps a little bit with the taxes and things like that. But you know, it also comes with headaches. You have to maintain it. You have to keep up with the tenants. You tenants leave. You have to get new ones in there. It is, it is tough. And the thing with a single family home is, as long as somebody's in there, a good tenant, you're good but as soon as that tenant leaves, you're not making any money. And depending on the market, it might be difficult to find someone to replace a tenant when they leave in the exact month that they leave. So you're going to have some dead months, and that makes it tough. Somebody's got to pay that mortgage. So I prefer multi family, and especially if you're if you're getting into real estate, small multi family is is the way to go. Particularly for me, triplex and four plexes seem like the safest bet. You know, the duplexes also, it's kind of hard to make a duplex, at least in the in the Midwest right now, to make it pencil, but triplexes and four plexes, they're a lot easier to get into if one you get the residential loan. So if you wanted to, you can house hack, you know, if you don't mind living in an apartment, you can go into a four Plex. You can live in one of the units. You can rent out the other ones. And by House hacking, you get the really small down payment FHA loan. You can put 5% down, get in there, renovate your unit while you have other people in the other units. And then when somebody leaves, you move to that unit, you renovate it, and you just jump through all four units, as long as you stay in that property for a year, then you can finance out of and go to the next one. And you've increased the value of that property, you've if you've renovated each of the units. And I'm not talking about large scale renovation, because that's not what I do. But you can go into an apartment, you can redo the bathroom, you can fix all the holes in the wall, you can maybe put down some LVP, get that nasty old carpet out things like that. Clean it up really well, paint everything. Put something in there that gives a little bit of pop on the apartment listing platforms, and you have increased the amount of rent that you can draw. So if you go through four units, say each of the four units were when you picked up that place were renting for 600 bucks. It does not take a lot of renovation, depending on the market, to take an apartment from $600 to eight or $900 you don't have to have a lot of capital infusion. You're not completely ripping out cabinets. You can, you can refinish the cabinets yourself. Sand them down, paint them. Take those old brown cabinets that nobody likes anymore, everybody likes these clean white cabinets, and just redo them. Redo them yourself. You know it's it's not crazy, but take that linoleum out, that old faded linoleum in the kitchen, and put down some LVP. It. And if you're not real handy, I'm sure you can find somebody that can help you. YouTube University, it will help you do everything you need to do. That's what I've always done. Just go online, find a video, figure it out. Doesn't have to be perfect. 99% of people won't notice the things that you notice because you did it. So get into a four Plex. Go from apartment to apartment, fixing the thing up over a year's time, and refinance out of it. Say you bought one of those for $300,000 and each one of them is making bringing in 600 700 a month, and when you leave that place, it's bringing in nine or $1,000 a month. You have just increased the cash flow of that place. And yeah, the cash flow doesn't necessarily translate to a higher valuation when you go to refinance or to sell, but every investor that's going to look at that place is going to be looking at how much the rents are, and does it pencil for them? It's not rocket science. Anybody can do this, if you have the gumption and the drive to get in there and be a little uncomfortable, to take that chance, to put some money down on your future, and then be willing to work at it for a year. I don't care who you are, you can make money in real estate. You can build something, regardless of the interest rates, that can last and be a future for your family. Get some tenants in there, get them paying the mortgage and money back into your pocket and enough money in the account that covers all the expenses, you know, capital expenditures, like what they call capex, which is, say, a furnace goes out, or an AC unit or a water heater, things like that, to where it's still paying for itself, but also paying the mortgage down and giving you a couple 100 bucks a month and move on to the next one. And you do that. You do that for five years. Your life has changed after that five years. So not only has that first place, the first property, they've been paying down the mortgage for five years, you know, whatever your rate is now, if they go down, you can refinance after a couple of years. You can find the opportune times to do these things, but at the end of the day, you have property that's appreciating. You have property that tenants are paying down. You have property that is bringing cash into your pocket, and you have enough depreciation on all those things that the cash that does come in you're not paying a dime of taxes on. It doesn't make sense why people aren't doing this, and I tell you what it is, it's fear. Fear is what's keeping people from doing this. You have to have a strong stomach and you have to believe in yourself to be able to do this. But if you do, sky's the limit. So just make it happen. Guys, just figure it out. Listen to podcasts. Learn about things, ask me questions, get on these like and follow these videos. Put some comments in there. Ask me a question. I'll answer your questions.

Speaker 2  08:10
Just do it peace. You.
