Speaker 1  00:00
Listen closely. The road to financial freedom is not something that happens overnight. So there might be people telling you all these things, but do not listen to them, because it's not the way that money works. There's not a tree in your backyard with Section Eight properties on it that you can just pluck and throw into the world and they'll just bring you back a bunch of money every month. There's no quick fix on meme coin that doesn't come with a bunch of risk stocks aren't going to explode overnight. You can't just buy 25 real estate properties using some credit cards. Come on, people you know deep down, when these people are telling you these things that something doesn't seem right, that's because it's not they're trying to sell you a course. They're not trying to fix your life. So if you want to change your life and change your family's future and you want to learn these things, learn the language of money, then let's do that. Three years ago, I was in your same situation. I had $338 to my name. I had no job, no car, no house, right? I was broke. I didn't know what I was going to do, and I said, right then and there, I'm going to change the way that I deal with money, the way that I deal with my life. Fast forward, three years later, I have a awesome job, right? I make more money than I even. I'm embarrassed to say what it is. I have a home that is worth a half a million dollars, that is completely paid for. I have short term rentals, long term rentals, multi family. I have acquired businesses. I have started businesses, all cash flowing assets. If you want to go from where you're at right now to where I'm at, let's do this like and follow. You know, stay tuned for my lives. I try to go do several of them a week. I know the platform is it's been crazy lately, but I can't go live tonight. Otherwise I would, but I'm not going to gate keep this information. When I started this journey, there were a bunch of gurus out there that wanted to charge 1000s of dollars for a course, that's not what I'm on. So if you're looking to change your life and learn these things, put questions in my comments. I will create a video on it, whatever it is that you want to do. I'm here to help you level up because I understand what it's like to be in your situation. Every time you turn around, you think someone's going to help you, and all they do is funnel you towards some kind of course, that may or may not help you. So let's do this together. I'm.
