Speaker 1  00:01
Hey everybody, it's Shane here to talk about money again today. What I would like to talk about is

Unknown Speaker  00:08
short term rentals specifically.

Speaker 1  00:11
So short term rentals are great. You know, you're going to hear people on this platform and other platforms say short term rentals are dead, and you can't make money off short term rentals. The market saturated. The laws are changing. Yeah, there's there's a lot of truth in those things, but it's very market dependent, and there are some advantages you get from short term rentals that you don't get from any other type of rental. So first, let's just talk about the viability of short term rentals. I think the Midwest is a great place for short term rentals. That's where we're invested, primarily in the Midwest and Missouri, and the reason I say that is because for one, the laws are more favorable when you get to mid size cities, near hospitals, near mid level, tourist attractions, things like that, people are looking for a place to gather. They're looking for a place to take their kids that is safer than a hotel, where, you know, everybody can be in the same house, but not necessarily walking all over each other like you do in a hotel room. So there's still demand for it, and the laws in the Midwest are a lot more favorable as well. So there's not a lot of restrictions. You know, usually they'll implement some kind of a lodging tax or something like that, that you have to, you know, you have to know what's going on in the area you're getting to, but they're still viable. So that that's, that's the main thing, like if you go to a place like Florida or, you know, a coastal area, even around some large lakes or Big Bear things like that, where the market is saturated and the housing cost has gone up so high and the insurance has gone up so high because of short term rentals, then, yeah, I would say stay away from it. You know, you don't want to invest in place like that, but you can buy a nice home in the Midwest, 150 $200,000 you can you can put some money into it, and you can make a good income on short term rentals, as long as you do it the right way. But the key is, what you have to do is get to the top of your market. You have to do a lot of research ahead of time before you get in there. And you have to figure out, Is this the market that I want to be in? Can I make money? What's the occupancy rate? What's the daily rate for the bedroom square footage, what kind of amenities do I need to add to make sure that my short term rental goes to the top of the list? How do I grab the attention that is garnered by the top earner in there? You know, do I want a themed experience? Is that how I do it? There's so many different ways, and that's what we do with short term rentals. We come in and we set those up, and we think about all those questions ahead of time, because you want to jump into a market and find out that there's a law around the corner that's going to keep you from making money, or there's the market is in decline, or something like that. So there you go, and let's talk about the advantages of short term rentals. For one, you're going to have the possibility to earn way more money than you would with a medium term or definitely a long term rental, because you're juicing, you're basically squeezing as much of the juice as you can out of each property because you got people coming in every night. You can also raise the cleaning fees to where you can. You can actually shave off some money there. There's so many different ways. And if you're a high w2 earner, if you have a good job, you're an engineer, like I am. I'm software engineer, or you're a doctor, a lawyer, and you get to a point during the accounting process at the end of the year, and that number that you're paying to Uncle Sam is way bigger than it should be. Short term rental is the way to go. Short there's a short term rental loophole, is what it's called. And if you're not, if your wife's not a real estate agent, you're not a real estate agent, the only way to deduct passive losses from your active income is through a short term rental. So with a short term rental, you can do what's called depreciation, and you so all these properties depreciate at a at a set schedule with the IRS. So I think it's like 27 and a half years. So say you buy something for $200,000 they say at the end of that 27 and a half years, it's depreciated all the way down. So each year you can take that depreciation on a short term. Rental, and you can apply it to your w2 taxes for a large deduction. And even more than that, you can take the deduction up front. You can front load that deduction. So what I mean by that is you can do what's called a Cost Segregation analysis. So a Cost Segregation analysis. Someone comes in, they do a full report of your cabinets, your appliances, and all the things that aren't necessarily considered the real estate, but that also depreciate. So those things depreciate on a different schedule, sometimes five, sometimes 10 years. And you can take all of that depreciation, you can front load it the first year that you buy a short term rental, and you can deduct that off of your taxes. So you could have, potentially, depending on the property that you bought, you know, upwards of $100,000 deduction. And there's also bonus depreciation that it's yet to be determined from the federal government this year if it's gonna currently at 60% so you can take whatever you can deduct, add 60% bonus on top of that to juice that number even more, because that's the name of the game. That's why real estate is so awesome, is because you can make money that's has way less tax obligations than anything else, especially, you know, your w2 job, you're not going to get rich working at w2 now, it's necessary. You need it. I love my job. I'm not getting rid of my job for anything. I'm going to keep it. But at the same time, I don't want to be paying all these taxes. I pay a lot of taxes, and I don't get a lot of benefit out of these taxes. So now, if you like paying taxes, that's fine. So back to the short term rentals. So you see what I'm saying with the short term rentals you can get in there. You can self manage which the software makes it so easy to automate all your systems to where you don't have to do much with these short term rentals. You just have to keep them going. Let the software do what it does. It answer. It can answer the tenant messages. It can set up your cleaning schedules. There's so many things that it does to make your life easier. It coordinates all three platforms. You can have Airbnb, booking.com, VRBO, all those things working together and coordinated, and you don't even have to think about it. You pay a flat fee every month. You set everything up and you forget about it. Just go around every now and then and make sure and that all your reviews are coming in, your occupancy is what you think it should be. There you go. So short term rentals are not dead. Short term rentals are far from dead. Got to have the right market, the right property, the right systems, and you definitely have to set it up in a way to go to the top of your market. You do those things. You can be successful. You can have a small tax burden, and you can make good money to supplement your regular job.

Unknown Speaker  08:00
Okay, guys, there's short term rentals. You.
