Speaker 1  00:01
Hey everybody, Big day today. So it's a Saturday, and it's it's really cold, and everything's snow covered, but I'm really excited because I'm going to go check out a auto repair shop that's for sale. So it's about 30 minutes from my house. I would say it's absentee. It's been around for decades. I can't give you specifics about it, where it is, or anything like that, but it is a really cool opportunity, because it's two sides. One side is the auto repair shop. It's got a bunch of lifts and all the equipment that you need, and the other side is parts, so he wants to sell both of them together. And right now, the numbers don't quite work. I think he's asking a little too much for it, but it's close enough that, if I can negotiate, if he's motivated, that this is worth pursuing. So the idea here with cash flow compared to asking price is, I like to see a property, excuse me, a business that is going to cash flow at three times at a multiple of three. Let's just say that. So what I mean by that is, if the cash flow times three is more than the asking price, then it will service the debt and it will make money. So if you can find a deal like that, you put 10% down on it. The way that works is that you will make enough money off of it that if you take all the profit and cash flow that the business is making that it will pay off the debt in about two years, generally, depending on how big it is, but as a general rule of thumb, it will service the debt. It'll be a good deal for any banks or the SBA, and you'll be able to pay all that back, and then in a couple of years, you have positive cash flow with no money in it. That's the dream, right there, right? That's what everybody's into this investing thing for. You're looking for businesses and real estate that's going to cash flow and pay you back and then have truly passive income. Now, I will say that businesses aren't quite passive, you know, unless you put people in place to do everything for you, but then it's at the sacrifice of cash flow right now, this particular auto repair shop that I'm looking at is absentee, so the owner doesn't really do anything, and there are management and several managers in place to keep it going, and that's both sides of the business. So I'm really excited. I I love this stuff. You know, I could be sitting at home and, you know, playing video games or something like that. But that just doesn't excite me. That's not what I'm into. I love the thrill of the hunt for this stuff. So I found this business. I've reached out. I've met him one time before, and I just, I just barely got to see the business because they were in the middle of something. So today, I get to talk to both the business manager and the owner, in depth, and I'm headed right now to pick up a friend of mine who's been a mechanic for 25 years. So he's going to tour the facility and make sure that they have all the equipment, that their equipment is in good working order. Talk about just the model that they use for getting customers and dealing with customers, and how many mechanics, and what the mechanics do, and don't know that kind of stuff he's going to take care of for me. And it's invaluable to have someone who is an expert in this kind of stuff, because I would be lost as far as the, you know, equipment and day to day running of the business, that's not what I'm here for. I'm, you know, I'm here to run the business, to invest the capital that it needs to get going. So he's going to handle that. We're kind of going to double team the owner and the business manager and see what we can do. You know, when you go into situations like this, and you know that they're asking too much, then you really comes down to numbers. So I'll be discussing numbers with the business manager, because I know that it's overpriced. I know that the multiple is off, and what they say is, there's a lot of blue sky in the deal. And what they mean by blue sky, if you don't

Unknown Speaker  04:22
know, if never heard that term, is that

Speaker 1  04:25
there's a lot of upside, so you can add value to the business. So they're saying that, you know, new management could come in, you could put more into advertising and marketing, and then there's a lot of upside and and they try to factor that into the price. Well, as far as I'm concerned, that is just a bunch of smoke and mirrors, because you don't know for sure. So what I do is I take all those numbers. I take the last three years of tax returns, because no matter what they do, they can say they had this, or they deducted this, or whatever. It's all in those tax returns. So those are the numbers I'm using. So I'll take the last three years of tax returns, and I'll take the net profit or loss, and I'll average those together, and whatever that number is, times three is the most I'm willing to pay. So we'll see, we'll see, we'll see where it's out, he's he's a motivated seller. He's an older guy. He's in his 80s, and he's tired. He wants to move on. He's made a lot of money, and he's got a lot of other investments and things going on. He just wants to be out of it. But at the same time, he wants to make sure that his legacy is preserved. He is very concerned about keeping the name of the business intact, which that's fine with me some you know, if a business has been around for 30 years, why would you and it's been successful, why would you ever change the name? It's a, you know, it's a staple in that market. So, yeah, I would definitely keep it the same, and I would modernize everything and make sure that we're maximizing the profits, but I'm not willing to factor that into the price and overpay for something, so you have to be very careful about that. So, yeah, I'm very excited about this. If you're into investing and thinking about starting or acquiring a business, and you're looking to take your life to new levels and to raise your family up and get some financial freedom, then like and follow, because I don't ask for any money, I don't sell courses, I don't do any of that stuff. I just do lives and I answer people's questions, and a lot of it's the questions that I had when I first started out three years ago. I was broke, not now. I have multiple businesses. I have several pieces of real estate, investment property, short term rentals, multifamily. And I have changed my life by learning how money works. And when you learn the language of money, there are no limits. So yeah, like and follow, join my lives and just tell me what you're into, and we'll figure this out. Ask questions. I love talking about this stuff you.
