Speaker 1  00:00
Hey everybody. It's Shane talking all things money and the language of money, being able to speak it fluently, and taking your monies and putting them out into the world and hopefully hoping they breed and bring you back lots of more monies. Today, I want to talk about the last short term rental that we did. So the short term rentals in Jefferson City, Missouri. It's, I was looking for something close to the Missouri State Penitentiary. And that seems that doesn't make sense. Well, the Missouri State Penitentiary was was built in like 1836 it's been shut down for over 20 years, and it's a huge tourist draw, right in the heart of downtown Jefferson City. It sits right on the river, right on the Missouri River. It's, looks like a castle, and a lot of people come. It's, it's a huge draw. They have like, five six tours a week, regular and six days a week. I think of the tours, and it's history tours, ghost tours, overnight, and people are coming in and out all the time to the city to do that. So I was looking for something within a block or two blocks of the prison for possibly a short term rental, because what is better than to be able to go to see that tour subtraction that you want to see, and you're just a block away from it, where you and the kids, and you can just walk there on a nice day and do what you you planned on doing. So we found a beautiful home. It was actually a business. It was a magazine company, so they were doing the magazine stuff, the writing, and on the first floor, and the second floor was a office space. They were renting it as office space to students and people that were coming in to work at the Capitol. And the top floor was a conference area. It's five bedroom, one and a half bath, like 2300 square feet. It was built in 1901, original hardwood floors, and it's like a block and a half, maybe from the prison. So I thought, wow, this is a gorgeous place. It's got a good roof on it. It's got a good foundation. It's got a scary old limestone rock basement. But, you know, nobody ever goes down there. And it was, it was run down. Yeah, it was being used as a business, but it was well traveled. Lot of holes in the walls, and the floors were rough, and the paint was faded, and the the windows needed a lot of work because they were faded and cracking. You know, that old paint, that very, very old paint I used to use it gets that, that cracked facade on it, you got to deal with all that. But it was large, it was in the right spot, and it was well priced. So I thought, Okay, well, it's zone c2 c2 is it stands for commercial. I don't know what the two actually is, but it's, it's your basic commercial. And it means, I think it's so you can live in the building, and it can be, you can run a business out of it. And it was listed, was actually on the MLS. And I don't like buying investment properties from MLS, if I can help it, because they're usually not great deals. But this one had sat for a while, and I didn't understand, you know, it was marketed as best of both worlds. You can live in this and run a business the you know, the opportunities are endless. Okay, so I talked to my realtor. I use this same realtor every time. She's great. Kathy, I don't know if you're watching this, but love you. And you know, she's like, Yeah, it's a nice place. And I went and looked at it. It was exactly what I was looking for. Like, okay, let's do this. Made an offer on it. They accepted the offer. Inspection was good. We got the financing in, started the financing in place, and we get to the appraisal process, and the appraiser says, Hey, we can't appraise this as a residential loan, as a residential home, because it's zoned c2 like, well, you know it's going to be it can go both ways. You can live in it, or you, or you can run a business. And they said, No, that's not the way that this works. If it's a c2 you have to get a commercial appraisal. It's different. And if you can't get it appraised residential, you can't get a residential loan. So all the numbers that I had put in to make for this thing to be really, really lucrative with that 30 year mortgage and that rate I was going to get for an investment property was all out the window, but I still felt like I would not be able to find another property at that location that was going. To be this good and this ready to go. So I thought, okay, let's, let's just, let's ask around. I networked a little bit. I talked to people I had not gotten a commercial property loan before. So I found a local bank. He was willing to work with me. He was willing to fit it into our timelines, or our original we had to push back, I think, one week on on our closing date, because we were in the middle of summer. We wanted to get in there. We wanted to get this thing going and and get some short term rentals in there as quick as we could. So it wasn't as favorable of a deal because it was a 15 year commercial loan, but it was a better rate because it was 15 years, and it ended up still penciling. But I knew getting into this that we had to go to the top of the market quickly, because there's on this block or three other

Unknown Speaker  05:50
short term rentals. And they were, they were nice,

Speaker 1  05:54
you know, they didn't advertise their proximity to the prison, though. They were all about the capital coming. Come in. You can, you can stay here and work at the Capitol. Okay, so my plan was to make a themed experience that people are coming in. They like this prison tour. We're gonna milk that for everything we can. So the first thing I did is I got some artwork, I had some some connections, and I was able to network enough to get authentic inmate artwork that came from the Missouri State Penitentiary for inmates that were there. And these are beautiful paintings and graphite drawings and portraits and quilts and all this authentic stuff. And we we made the whole place theme like a prison. So the the dining room is is, says the chow hall on a plaque, the kitchen says inmate kitchen. There's an inmate library, and there's cell block one, the master bedroom with this huge, beautiful bed, which you need. You need furniture like that. It stands out on these listings, it says wardens quarters. There's a play area and a kid's room that says juvenile hall. And so we did this, we got big, bright, bold colors, which goes against what they say. They say on Airbnb listings you should have, you know, clean whites and things. And I think, yeah, I think to a certain extent, that's true, but not if you want to stand out. If you want to stand out and and have them double take on your listing, you want to be bold. And so we marketed this thing as being a block away from the prison, prison themed luxury experience, and people have rented it like gangbusters. They came in. Loved it. From day one, we've had nothing but five star reviews. We went from just starting, which would have been in July of 24 now we're at the top of the market. Here is the years getting rain turnover. It's almost 2025 almost 2025, and in that short amount of time came super host in that in that area. We've got nothing but five star reviews, 10 star reviews on booking.com premier hosts on VRBO with this thing, and people love it. Our occupancy rate is 10 points higher than everybody else in that market, in that area, because the price pricing tools like price labs will let you go in and do that market analysis. So I've done that hospitable allow you to do it as well. It's that's a hosting platform that I'll get into later. But yeah, so I was able to do this and automate all these systems and stand out because I didn't listen to what people said about, oh, yeah, you need to do this. You have it white, and, you know, you don't want to be near other short term rentals. And, oh, there's a prison a block away. And that's that thing. Looks looks weird, but what that did, and it being a commercial building, made it weird, but what it has done is give us a leg up on everybody, because there's nothing else in that area that's even remotely like us. And I didn't put a lot of money into it. The place wasn't expensive to begin with, most of what I did was cosmetic, with the exception of, you know, putting a privacy fence, and it has been absolutely wonderful, and people love it. So just because someone tells you this is the way things are are supposed to be, doesn't mean that's always the case. If you know the market is saturated and you've got all these cookie cutter things, yeah, you put another cookie in that mill, and you're you're not going to get a lot of nibbles. But if, in a world full of cookies, you're the only. Cupcake that changes things. So there you have it. Guys, short term rentals. They still work. Do.
