Speaker 1  00:01
Can we talk realistically about crypto for a minute? I'm a software engineer. I work exclusively in web three and blockchain. I have been for years. Specifically, I'm a smart contract engineer, and if you don't know what that means, basically that means I can write smart contracts that deploy tokens on various blockchains. And I know the standards. I know how they work, and I've deployed multiple tokens. You have a lot of people on this platform and other platforms saying that, Oh, this, you know, this crypto is going to be the one. This is going to be it's going to be XRP, it's gonna be blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I can tell you definitively that no one knows what they're talking about. I am in it every day, all day, and I couldn't tell you any more than anyone else. So just remember that that it is basically a gamble. When you put a bunch of money into crypto, it still is. You can make as many educated guesses as you want to, and there are people out there that have made good money in it, but there's also people out there that make a lot of money from blackjack. Just remember that that's what it is. So even though I'm in it day to day, I have less than 5% of all my investments in crypto. And what I do invest in crypto is just the big three, what I consider to be the big three, the ones that have the most utility and the most use going forward, they are either securing a very popular blockchain. And if you don't know what that means, that's fine. Just just know that they're like the background currency that keeps that blockchain safe and all the transactions going through. And they're just used as common currency or a, you know, hedge against the dollar. So what I invest in are the big three, which is Bitcoin, obviously, Aetherium and Solana. I do not invest in anything else I have in the past, and I that's where I learned my lesson, because there were some crypto out there that were on really good chains that I thought were better than the big three that I just told you about. But it doesn't always matter if they're better. It matters about marketing. It matters about first movers, who's been there the longest you know, who has the most market share, things like that, so I keep it safe. Those are the only three I invest in as of now, and just remember that no one knows where crypto is going. It goes wildly up and down, and there are bots and AI and institutions and huge investors that are moving these crypto currencies back and forth, back and forth, and it's very hard for someone like you and me to be able to make consistent returns from that. So instead, I choose to invest in things that I have some control over, which is buying small businesses, real estate, things that I can add value myself. So if you're tired of losing money in crypto or trying to, you know, win the roulette wheel that is meme coins, like and follow, join my lives. Ask questions. You can join the money Language Academy, if you'd like to, we talk about crypto investments, and we talk about how you can more safely and more securely invest your money for your future. So if you're interested in that, I don't sell a course. It's $1 a day. That's all it costs. For the community, you get access to all my resources. You get access to me, and I do a live class every Thursday, at eight Central. So if you're interested, click the link in my bio, like and follow and I'll see you there. Bye.
