Speaker 1  00:00
Bam. If you're thinking about investing in real estate for the first time, do not use a DSCR loan. Here's why. DSCR stands for debt service coverage ratio. And what it does is it takes the income that is produced by the property, plugs it into an equation, and you get a number from that. So basically, if the property services the debt, plus a certain amount, then you can qualify for the loan. So the property qualifies for the loan. Now that seems great, because you don't have to use your own financials. You don't have to give them your tax returns and go through that whole business, but here's the problem. Number one, it's a higher interest rate. So in this market right now, when it's hard to make properties cash flow, you got to find really good deals. That makes it even tougher to find deals. So if you're not good at sourcing off market properties, DSCR is not going to get you a great deal. You have to squeeze every bit of margin you can out of these places. Two there's generally a prepayment penalty. So that means, in this environment where the interest rates are really high, that if you want to refinance in a year, two years when the rates are hopefully lower, you're going to pay a steep penalty, and a lot of the benefit of refinancing out of those properties is going to be lost, because it's going to go to your lender as you refinance. And the third reason why is a lot of them aren't 30 year loans. A lot of DSCR loans are based on 20 and 25 year amortization. So it's very difficult. So what I would recommend is just getting a residential mortgage. Make sure that you have your credit score right. Make sure that you have enough of a down payment that you can you can cover a decent property, save be frugal. Don't rush into this process. Learn about it first. And if you're interested in getting your first rental property, if you're interested in figuring out how to get that down payment, how to finance that down payment, maybe how to credit stack to get that down payment, then like and follow. We can talk about this, join my lives. Ask me the questions. Post questions in here. I will answer them. Peace. You.
