Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody, welcome to Money Language Academy. It is July 24 2025 and tonight we're going to talk to Ted Cardone. Ted is a friend of mine. We've been friends for a while. He has managed to build a small empire in Philadelphia. He might not he might not describe it that way, but that's the way I describe it, multiple businesses, factories, pretty much self made entrepreneur. And I thought it would be good to to bring someone in that has both, has been on both sides. He's been a he's bought businesses, he started them, he sold businesses, and just to kind of get the full story of, you know, especially on the East Coast, because things are different, you know, it's different than it is in the Midwest. I bring a Midwest perspective to everything, and probably a twang. I'm pretty sure I watch my videos. I'm like, where did that twang come from? But it's in there. But I thought, you know, we could talk to Ted and maybe just kind of see his experience and see how he's able to get to where he's at now, and where he started from. So hey, Ted, if you don't mind, can you just kind of talk a little bit about your back background and and how you got started in this

Speaker 2  01:18
Sure, I'm actually also from the Midwest, born and raised in Missouri. Then, you know, over time, I have moved here on the East Coast, I'm in Philadelphia, and my background actually is more in computer science and computer engineering. That's where I started at the University of Missouri, when I was in progress, while I moved up here, I had just completed my business degree, and then I did my Executive Masters in food marketing, and from there on out, you know, I just continued to work mostly in food manufacturing, and I have been an executive at a company for 20 years, and then we can talk more about that company. But then we've made some, like you said, different business acquisitions. We've sold some businesses, we bought some businesses, and currently been working on some business new models that we're working on as well. So my background is predominantly, though, in food manufacturing and part of their food processing.

Speaker 1  02:28
Okay, can you talk about maybe the first business that you were involved in, selling from a seller's perspective?

Unknown Speaker  02:34
Yeah. So

Speaker 2  02:37
you know, when you look at a business, the first thing is you have to prepare it. You have to set you have to set the stage, and you have to put yourself into the potential buyers shoes. If that business isn't suitable, if it's not right, it's not prepared for such thing, for such exit, then you're not going to get that investment, that return on investment, as you would hope so most of it, it all comes down to preparation and preparing the business. So the first thing that I always looked at is to see how efficiently the business is operating, okay, and to also look at how to put in structure. And what I mean by structure is, you know, if it's a smaller business, you don't need a lot of formal policies and procedures. You don't need a ginormous manual kind of a thing. You need small enough structure. When it comes into smaller size business, maybe like a 20 pager thing that it gives the do's and don'ts, and then you instill that structure, and you make sure that the efficiency is working 100% before you build enough history to prepare the company for its exit. So lots of times, people just say, I just want to sell my business. And that's fine. You can, let's just assume that you would sell this business for 100,000 but if you put a little bit more of a work, you will sell that business for three or 400,000 and at that point, does it worth it? Yeah, it absolutely does, but it also makes it a lot easier for the potential buyer to come in and buy it. So when I've worked with small businesses, I've worked with creating that structure. When I've sold a much, much larger business, their structure was, by far, much bigger. So the first company that I've worked with, and I can actually say so now, because I'm not in the under restrictive covenants, it was the original Philadelphia cheese stick company, who was then, later on down the road, was sold to Tyson Foods. Great company, and Tyson is now making that field cheesecake product. Now that business was prepared a lot tremendously by me when I exited that business, then the partners who were left behind sold it to Tyson Foods. The business was state it was perfectly ready to be sold now from a smaller business. You know, I've sold smaller businesses similarly by creating that structure, and then it made a lot easier for the new operator to come in and feel, okay, I'm not starting from nowhere to begin with. And then there is a value to the structure that I've put in. But at the same time, though, it gives a lot of structure and direction to the people who work in that business, especially when it comes into the organizational chain of command.

Speaker 1  05:31
Okay, can you maybe talk a little bit now? Full disclosure here, I'm pretty down on the food industry. When we talk about betting businesses because of the competition. And you know, you have to be, in my opinion, you have to be a very good operator to find success in the food industry. And I don't think it's necessarily a good business for first time buyers. But can you talk maybe just a little bit about being in the food industry and the acquisition of, say, a restaurant or Yeah.

Speaker 2  06:01
So look after I left the world of manufacturing and I sold, I sold our company to our partners, who then sold it to Tyson Foods, then I actually started looking at acquiring other businesses that they were already structured, they were ready, and they were operational. And in that area, you know, I'm kind of looking also for some sort of a structure, some sort of a talent that I could acquire it, that I don't have to be there to micromanage it. So the latest acquisition we did, it was a company called double double decker pizza, and that was a full blown restaurant, and from there, we've took the foundations and we continue to build on it as a concept, and it's been a very interesting journey. So there's different types of businesses that you can prepare to sell. Like I said, the smaller and the bigger. And from there on, after you cherry pick your top performers and you train them, and once you train them, then it prepares you to extend tremendously. I've had a lot of fun with that, personally, especially with the team that you put that you put together. It's like a secondary family, and when you're with them throughout the entire time, it gives them a sense of direction, of where you headed. I call it a shared mission and a shared vision, right? And I always tell people, do not subtract and divide. Always add and multiply. And when you create that structure, and you take that foundation, and you create a clear chain of command, clear do's and don'ts, you know, policies, and you give them a clear direction of where you envision that company to go, it will have tremendous potential there, and after so you will face a lot of resistance in the smaller business, and I gotta say, in the retail and the restaurant business, I faced tremendous resistance from people who were there prior to me who had tremendous amount of inexperience, and they would say, well, it's not like manufacturing though, you know, it's a lot different. And I said, Well, I'd like to learn it. I'd like to know more, and I like to see what more can happen to it. So as for instance, on that double decker concept, there was a product that we made, and we even took it all the way and shared it with the Philadelphia Phillies, which was tremendous success. And this is just being able to see outside the box, I think, into what potential that business can have with what you can do for that business. But it has no structure. You know that it's not really going anywhere. So there's couple of things to look out for. It all depends.

Speaker 1  08:55
Okay, so if you had a friend that came up to you and said, Hey, I'm thinking about buying a business. What advice do you have? Am I ready to buy a business? Like, what would you what would you say to them? Because that's pretty much what all the community members are, you know, here to learn what it what they need to know in order to find a business, to vet it and then actually be able to, you know, bring it home.

Speaker 2  09:22
So it's what you just said. You have to bet out the business. So when I bought, you know, like double decker pizza as for instance, or other businesses, I've always went there as a customer, just to see how it operates, what I like and what I don't like. And it's a, it's a, it's a lengthy process of vetting it out, preparing yourself financially to take that step. And when somebody approaches me and says, Well, listen, I am considering buying a business, I would say, vet it out, extremely careful. Look at the business and. A go to the actual business, be a customer, send a friend, send someone that that you can feel confident, that you can rely on, that you can go at the pizza store and see how they will perform, how they do treat their customers without them knowing it. Collect as much as quantitative and qualitative data that you can because that data itself has a value. So let's just assume someone is asking for a million dollars to buy a pizza store. Does it worth a million dollars? The Financial vetting of it, I would advise someone to leave it up to a professional accountant, by the way, like if you were to hire a CPA, there is almost barely any charge when you say, I want this vetted out, and I want it carefully vetted out. So they'll go in, they'll look at the financials, they'll look at the merchant accounts, they'll look at deliveries versus X, Y and Z. But in every industry, there are secrets, right? So every company, our former CEO of the manufacturing company that I was in, he would say, every business has its secrets. So the secret is, where is that mysterious number coming from? Who made that number, and what value does that number have to them? Is it a brand value? Does the brand worth tremendously that value. How are they justifying that number in their P and L? It's very key, and it's very important, and what value does that have? But then, when you go in right and you're about to make that purchase, you can easily say, Look, your brand doesn't really worth that much. It doesn't worth a million dollars. Worth 800,000 in the grand scheme of things, $200,000 is a significant amount of money that you could save. But at the same time, if you don't look at all of the financial model from a really good accountant, if you don't leverage that business into some extent, if you don't spend some time to understand this business and you are almost an absentee owner. That's what I'd like to consider myself, almost as an absentee owner. It becomes challenging, because there's different models. Do you want to be an absentee manager and an absentee owner, where you can own 20 different stores with 20 different names. Or do you want to turn this into a chain? Do you want to turn this into a franchise? What is trending to you to make it into that? So when I got into the restaurant part, I saw it exactly like that. How can I become a franchise? So if I was to buy Double Decker, I want to call it epic, and that's what we call it. And if I bought another pizza store, x, y and z, we did. We're continuing to do the same model. You incorporate it under the umbrella of that model, so they could be an epic in West Chester, there's west you know, there's an epic in media. There's an epic in so many different suburbs around Philadelphia. And you build that model, because that is the mission and the vision that you have. And you tell people, or are you going to be that absentee owner, that you're going to allow it to run in the fashion that it was running? There's a lot of things that people will like and they will dislike. There's companies who pay real time, you know, Friday comes in and they'll pay you on Friday for the hours that you work. That's insanity, or are you instilling a payroll system and a process and a procedure? And when you do that, you're going to have a lot of people who like it, and they will follow you, and you will have a lot of people who will fall off the tree, for lack of better words, they'll say, that's not for me. I'm out. So when you build this model, you go find your front liners. When I bought this business, I went and I found my two to three frontlining people, and I knew that I have to make a significant investment with these people, meaning time, treasure, talent, everything. And these are the people who I consider my right and left hands in it, and I consider them part of my extended family. And with these people, you can do tremendously amazing things together, where everybody can grow a little story as a background. Couple of years. It was a long time ago, so mindfully again, we sold the Philadelphia cheese state company to our partners, who then sold it to Tyson. Right? So it was staged, not staged, but it was prepared, for lack of better words, to head towards an exit. It was prepared and ready and capable for an exit. Well, when we started to build our own manufacturing now, so we're doing our own manufacturing company, what I did not ever realize is the tremendous difficulty of starting a business from ground one with nothing when you start your own food manufacturing company versus you buying an established running food manufacturing company now all the things that the previous owners. Uh, or my predecessors, I would say, have taught me. It just hits me with reality. 20 years later, 25 years later, it's coming to realization what these people were talking about, because you are now in the trenches. You're now are making these decisions, and you are now steering that boat, that direction of that boat, and there's a lot of people in that boat, and you better make sure you have your first line of command right behind you at all times, because I tell them all the time, everybody wants to join you in the glory, but no one's going to join you in the pitfalls that you're going to have throughout this journey. Everyone's going to play the fifth they're like, I already know that it's just Paul, but when that glory moment comes, it will be amazing. So when I've learned that, and now all that experience comes in it, I remember every single thing that these people had taught me, Nick and George, they've taught me tremendously amazing things, and I'm now more grateful than I was then before, because now I'm building my own food manufacturing company, and it's been a true blessing. But at the same time, there's there's times where we're like, we have no life, we're exhausting what we do. But then we know, and we hope that it will pay on the back end, similar story Chobani. I love the Chobani story. I tell this to people all the time, true story. About 20 years ago, when I was with the original Philly, I went into the board and I told them, should make yogurt. And they said, Nah, you're crazy. We're gonna make yogurt for we barely can make. What products we can make. Now we're working seven days a week. Chobani comes on, and three years later, they announced that they're a billion dollar company. I mean, you just got to have the vision, and you have to strive for it, and you have to make some really hard decisions. And along the way, there's going to be a lot of pitfalls. And honestly, to the person who comes up to me says, I want to buy business. I'm going to tell them, if you capture 80% of it, okay, you're still good. If your accountant captures 80% you're still going to be okay, but at some point you have to decide, are you going to be the absentee owner, or am I going to build some sort of a chain, some sort of a system behind it that it could rapidly grow and expand thereafter? Because it's just a cookie cutter from there on after, and that's what you'll learn through this journey of buying a business,

Speaker 1  17:23
there's two avenues, yeah, yeah, definitely. So this might be a difficult question, but can you maybe talk about a mistake that you made in the acquisition, like something like something that happened, maybe a difficult time that you had to overcome, an obstacle that you didn't see until you'd already, you know, been in the business and had to just figure your way around it.

Speaker 2  17:46
Yeah, not one I can. I can sit here all night and tell your mistakes, but you know what they say, you learn from these mistakes, and it's how quickly you recover, how quickly you're going you're going to recover from that plays a tremendous role. So double decker pizza in particular, we'll talk about that. One has a lot of history. It started like, I think, in 1976 they're accustomed to make certain products their way, and it was always their way. The community knew them for the longest. And I come in, and I'm the new president, CEO, and I said, we're not going to call it double decker anymore. We're going to call it epic. It's like, literally watching the stock market crash. It was going, like, everywhere. And I was like, I'm like, I can't believe what's happening, you know? And people were like, negatively speaking about us on on all social, on all sort of social media channels. I mean literally, I felt like the Facebook community was just focused around epic and how epic as a new company is coming to ruin tradition since 1976 so when you acquire a business like that that it has tremendous amount of history. It becomes very tricky. And the mistake that I made is I didn't care. I pulled the band aid and I changed the name, and I dealt with the consequences, and that was losses in sales, a lot of ill and wrongful language on social media platforms, honestly. I mean, even if we serve the same exact water that we call a legacy Fiji, whatever it was, they would say They even changed the water. I mean, it was crazy, like we had changed nothing. We had changed no recipes. We had changed nothing in Armenia, we had increased, no price, just a name that perception alone costed us tremendous losses, and that's when I realized it, and I said, now we got to do the TD model. So TD, when they acquired AmeriTrade, right? When they did that mistake, they did the same mistake that I did, but in a much, much larger scale. So people didn't know who. Were AmeriTrade versus TD Bank. What are they known now for? TD, AmeriTrade, they incorporated the two names together. So it's exactly what I did, immediately, an immediate recourse. And the recourse was epic double decker as a concept, and people kind of slowed down there on after so I consider that as a branding mistake. To do it on day one, because we've noticed that people were making that assumption that we've changed everything. Our prices are higher, the products don't taste the same, and we're like, it's the same people. It's the same product. We didn't even change the water, for crying out loud. What are these things wrong? They're just saying that we took something that the community had with a name and we changed it, and at the same time, they didn't like it, and they pushed back considerably. So now we're seeing a traction of these individuals coming back, these customers, which is, we're blessed and we're grateful to have them back. So that was a good size mistake that I've learned. You don't see that much in the world of manufacturing. So manufacturing and retail is a little bit different. One is on the back end channel. The other one is really dealing with the customer up front. So it's a great experience to see the front end in the back end of a business. But look, our company makes other investments. We're not just in the food industry. We're in real estate. We're in multiple different things, but the ones that we are more hands on have the highest risk, but they have the highest potential reward as well. So in those businesses or models that we consider ourselves absentee owners, it works on its own. It works on its own. But if we have a model in mind, then it's really hands on, and it's really changing the process. And honestly, even when you take a product and you manufacture it or you make it better, people still won't like it, surprisingly, just perceptually, because they think that you changed it for the worst when you change it even for the best. So even if you took oil Grade B, and you change it to oil Grade A, people will still say, well, it tastes different. It's not the same, even though you put a better oil in a product, for instance. So lot of things that you can learn, a lot of mistakes, and one difficult, difficult subject that I've learned the hard way in in the food service delivery. Delivery is a very hard thing, very hard thing, so I was really surprised with that.

Speaker 1  22:52
Okay, what about the the operators, your managers? So are you promoting from the previous employees, or are you bringing a manager in yourself from your team? Like, what? What's your strategy there?

Speaker 2  23:07
So my strategy is, like I said, to identify the two top three performers. And if a business has two to three performance performers, I identify what kind of potential these individuals have, meaning like, do they have the potential to become something more? Can they run more than one store? Can they run three and four and five stores? How dedicated are they? How committed they are? And honestly, it's not just about how work. You know how hard they work. It comes down to, can you trust them? And most people think trust is just a simple word. Trust is a formula. It really is a formula. And you have to go through the process. So you have to see how they react on the yes and the NOS and the changes, how quickly they adapt to those things, right? So if they adapt quickly, then you know that you can work with this person. You can mold them to be exactly what you want them to, to perform and do. When you see that that's not working, then you know that you don't have a team, and that's when you start bringing in people from the outside to create that team. When you when you create a combined team, like I'm doing now in manufacturing. So in our manufacturing, we're bringing in people who had the restaurant experience, and now we're bringing people who have the manufacturing experience. So when you see those people come together, it's truly amazing. But again, it goes back into the structure they know every single day, what is it for them to do? So? Step First is this. Step two is this? Step three is that it is just like a routine. Think about it. The military. You know, they march. Why do they march? They march for a reason. They march with a direction. You know, they have a formation. Right. So when you can create the formation, and these top managers, who, I call them, your right and left hand right, think of yourself. If you're the admiral, you need some really good generals, and you want to make sure that those generals are on your side. And when they move up, when you move up financially, you can bring them up as well financially, especially, you're not going to be profitable in the first year. I've tried this endless times. It's just a physical impossibility. I mean, if you're breaking even, great, but if you're making changes, and you are the kind of business that you want to move up, then the first thing that I do is I look who in that company has the potential to move up. That's the first thing I do. And if I identify them, then I just kind of wait, take them and I put them in a pool on the side and said, Okay, I got this guy and this guy that they have the potential to move up if they go through this training, if they go through this exercise, if they understand what the mission, the vision is, if they can understand structure, if I can trust them, if they are hard working. So then you invest that time with them. If not, you bring people from the outside. If you're going to be an absentee owner that you own, like a local pizza store, and you just want to own another pizza store with another name in another state or another township or another suburb, then anyone would work, as long as they're there and they're working and their returns are the same ones that you've seen. That's terrific. But when you look for a person who has the responsibility in them, you want them to feel what you feel when it comes to this business, because if they don't have skin in the game, they're not going to care. They're really they're going to do as best as they can, unless they see that mission and vision and what you're promising to deliver them, they're not going to care. Most of them, they're not going to care. And honestly, the rest of them are just going to do everything else. But what you're telling them to do, because they have been doing this for such a long time that it's just an engraved routine that's hard to get out of it. So I got my one guy who's literally like my right hand guy. And I tell Nico all the time, they're not going to do it, but you can't, you know, laugh at their face. You can be like, Man, we told you 1000 times. No, you have to be consistent. You have to keep on telling them the same thing over and over and over and over until that becomes a routine. How long is that going to be? Nine weeks? Could be three months. It could be four or five months. But when that becomes a routine, it's a great routine then, because they know everything that they have to do. So yeah, they they won't care about turning off the lights. Well, okay, great. But do you know that you're gonna have to pay like four grand on electric that month? Well, if they're not going to turn off the lights, then who is going to I'm not going to go in and close the lights in a business that we have. So I put a whole bunch of cameras and having a little background in it. I do as much as things as possible that they're electronic. Push a button shuts off all the lights. I look at the cameras. I know everything went well, but I mostly rely on that person, who I call my generals, more than everybody else, because they have to keep on pushing that mission and vision and that culture to everyone else. You got to have that the right chain of command at all times. I think so when somebody comes in by an estimate, I'm thinking of buying a business. It's like somebody coming up to you and saying, Hey, man, I want to buy some stock. I want to buy some bitcoin. You're like, yeah, it's a long road to making it work, but can it work? Yeah, can you get lucky yet? But here's my thing, what happens when you hit some sort of a different, difficult problem somewhere? Who are you going to go to? Every business has its cycle, and every business is going to hit a serious problem. They say, right. So I was on the board of an insurance company for six years. I was the president of a language school for about two years. Every business, every industry, is going to hit a major, major issue. Who's going to address it? If you don't have good generals that they're going to support you to solve this problem, then you have to be able to solve it just yourself, and at the same time, you have to explain this to everybody else how to and you're always going to have issues, right? You're always going to have some sort of an issue. I mean, we have issues where, you know, you can put in a wet caution, caution sign, and then you'll see a guy going right on it, and they'll slip and fall, and you have to defend it. You have to take care of it in multiple ways, but there's also bigger problems. So I'll tell you. A great example is that if you don't have those managers to. Be with you at that time when that happens, whether you lose electricity or a water system shuts off and soaks up your entire shop, right? So there's a guy, he reaches out, he's like, Man, I'm having so many troubles. And I said, Yeah, is your store flooded with, like, I don't even know how many gallons of water, and you'll say, No, well, then you don't have any problems, I tell them. But when you go in and you tell your two generals, or whoever those people are, this is what happened. This is how I wanted to be resolved. You have a, what I call a little meeting, right? A little pow wow with your group and you read consensus. Because I don't want with me people who were just guessing, but I don't want also people who are just are there to subtract and divide us, and we can't do that. No, I can present you with a problem every single minute, every single day, 24 hours a day. Present me with a problem, present me with a solution. Okay, listen to my direction and a solution. If your solution is better than mine, I will adopt it, and I will do exactly what you're saying, but I will monitor it to make sure that it happens. So it goes all back to essentially into determining if the company has a good structure, and if it doesn't have a good structure, what good is it? You know, where are you going to start if you look at that company? So while I was with the original filling, I created structure, structure, structure. And people were saying, Oh my goodness. Policy, policy, policy, this policy, that, but this policy created a new shape and a new direction, a new routine, a new process, and then the company was headed beautifully where it was going right now, with the factory that we're building, we're doing the exact same thing. It is so unknown to quite a lot of people, but that routine is engraved to them because they know what the chain of command is. They know what needs to be done in order to bring out a new product to the market, and some products are extremely hard to bring out to the market. So it's a lot easier to buy a business that already has a product on the market, you know, or a service, of course. But what are you planning to do with it? Are you just going to own one pizza store in one area, or you're going to own 20 pizza stores? Are you going to own a factory behind it, that you're going to build a brand and brand equity behind it. Well, then you gotta, you gotta get, you gotta get on in the trenches with your generals to make sure that your shoulder, your shoulders are just falling through correctly, too. It's hard. There is no easy solution.

Speaker 1  32:36
Yeah, yeah, definitely. So we, we have seen with people that are trying to break into this, you know, business acquisition area that there's two main barriers. The one, the first barrier is just learning how it all works. You know, how, how does this work? How does, how does the process of buying a business work? How do I run a business? The second area is the funding. So being able to acquire funding, credit and things like that. Can you, can you speak a little bit to funding and how you've been able to, you know, fund acquisition and the factory things like that?

Speaker 2  33:10
Yeah. I mean, look, the easiest way to fund it is by, there's a couple of different ways, right? One way is that, let's just say you have a business, a restaurant that or three or four now, or maybe five, and that they're all actually putting in money into paying off a new business that is very tax efficient when you do that, because it becomes like a really big support mechanism for it too. So technically, our restaurants, the concept behind it is paying for the factory for this process to to get to the point where it's ready to start producing a product and making an income. The funding part is is hard because one is that you can have your other businesses support the next model. Two is, you can actually use those businesses into some sort of a collateral to get some sort of a small business loan. But there's also something even better out there, that it's a little harder for people to get, is to, you know, to reach out to certain organizations, including a lot of local states, they have a lot of incentives in place, you know, and those incentives in place, they may be, you know, X amount of dollars that you won't have to pay back, kind of a thing. So it all depends into the industry that you're in, and what you're about to provide into that community. So those grants are available. There is like websites with different types of grants, but for you to achieve your goal, you have to have a budget, you have to have a mission, you have to have a vision. You have to have something in place then and there to show your the. Financial lending institution. This is my direction, and I want to borrow a million dollars. You know, I want to borrow $2 million but this is where I'm headed. This is what I'm trying to do. So you have one business paying off, let's just say the labor for the factory. Well, what about all this equipment? There is grants out there for equipment, local, city, state, even private ones, and you have to reach for every single one of them. Will you get them? You might get one or two, but still enough. It's still good enough. So the lending part to starting a business is very, very hard, and I get it, and a lot of the people who are going to start from the beginning, yeah, they all hurt, but I tell you what, you'll make a lot of sacrifices, I think, especially in the beginning, but it does worth it later on, because I used to work 10 times harder than I work now to be where I am now, and I remember that I had to wake up like a six o'clock in the morning, walk in the snow, meet someone at the supermarket, so I can catch a ride, so we can all go to the factory and work together. It's not easy. You have to make sacrifices. And if you think that you're not going to make sacrifices, whether you're the admiral that I call them, or you're the general, it doesn't work. It doesn't work. So people say, How do I balance my personal life? I've heard that question with my work life. Well, if you are determined, and if you want to build a little empire, let's just call it, okay, then you have to make some sacrifices. And usually time is the sacrifice. You have to sacrifice time in order for you to build a career in order for you to build a successful business that produces a successful income, but the people are going to respect you more when you're building a brand and you give them a sense of direction, of where you're headed. I have guys who worked with me up until like two, three o'clock in the morning, seven days a week. Recently, in the last couple of months, not a single one of them complained. Not a single one asked me, I should get paid more. They did it all, and we were very happy of what we were doing. We're having fun, you know, maybe we went delirious at some points with the amount of work that we had to do, but we had a lot of great time and that that will be a testament to all of the hard work that we're putting in now, into where we want to be in the next one year. So sometimes you just got to see outside the box, and you're going to see if you can achieve certain goals in a year or two from now. So it's going to be very hard in the beginning to convince a bank to convince a small business loan to apply for grants, to leverage some of your businesses and the income that they're producing to pay for something else. And I'm telling you, I'm going to go back to it what I said no one. It doesn't matter if you have 30 investors behind you, not a single one of them are going to come in at the moment where a splinter sprinkler system goes off and you have to rush and get this done, but they will be there for the next photo op. I assure you. I tell my guys all the time, they'll be there and say, We did it, but no one will come in and say, What are we going to do? And you know, what's a great thing is people look up to leaders is when they know you understand what in the world the other person is talking about. So I like to understand the nitty gritty of things. I go do dishes sometimes, because I find it relaxing when people really don't like dishes. They really don't. But I find it two things, I find out that it humbles me. And two, I get to hear everything that's going on in that business. Right there. It's like, the center of the Intelligence Committee. This is where it's like, you know what? Ted doesn't do that, Shane doesn't do that, Nick doesn't do that. And you hear everything. So I love it. And at the same time, it shows everybody that we're all part of one system, one system with one direction. So I don't mind, man. I mean, I've started from I've started from nowhere. My first job was at rocheport in Missouri, and I've worked for my uncle, and he had a fruit market, and I've worked for him for two weeks, and then he goes, Well, you can have some of the fruits. I'm like, wait, angle, do you know we're not going to get paid? He goes, No, you can have some of the fruits. Quit. Man, I said, What's the point? So you crazy, but yeah, you're gonna learn a lot from a lot of different things, but you won't learn them until you try them. So my first thing then should have been how much do I get paid, and when do I get paid? You know, he never mentioned the pay structure, but I found it rewarding. When I joined the manufacturing. I had the lowest pay, I had the lowest pay, and I didn't ask for anything. I just wanted to create efficiencies, reduce costs. I. Produce more. And then what the owners have looked up is that this guy is in the trenches with everyone else. They kept on promoting me. I must have been promoted if I worked there for 19 years. I got promoted 22 times, kind of a thing. I kept on getting promoted from one department to another. I went in and I worked, and I created the HR department, and then something else, something else. And I'm doing the exact same thing right now. So right now I'm working hard to create a top of the line quality control department, like top of the line. And I did the same thing at the restaurant, you know, we looked to find who is capable of managing it and what is our level of satisfaction. And then you have a system that is checking up on them. And that system is, it could be as simple as a check down list. Believe it or not, a simple list is extremely helpful, because when they check all the boxes that everything has been done, then you know it's been done, and then you don't have to worry about it. And then whether it's another year from there that you will be producing a successful income, it will come back, because now you have new clientele mixed with the previous ones. Now you have people who know how to march correctly and produce the products that you want. And you have that formation. So, you know, I come from the I was born and raised in Missouri. So my parents are Greek immigrants, so I was partially raised for like, six years or so in Greece. And what I loved about learning those things in Greece was as I was there, I was there as a guest, believe it or not, right? I had to pay visa to be in a foreign country, and then I had to come back in Missouri. So what I've learned there is everything mathematically has a formation, and everything has a routine. And if you don't have a good routine, someone will break that formation very quickly. So very famously, they were talking about all the time about strategy, Alexander the Great, how did few were able to defeat so many? But if you realize, how can few, whether it's four of us, can, I don't want to say defeat, but I would say lead and direct and navigate a very large group of people. It is amazing that it's successfully done consistently. So even in Missouri, when I was in Missouri, that's the first thing I identify. And if I disagree with someone like, you know I disagree with Tom at times where I'd say, No, He's incapable of leading. There's a difference between leading and managing. That manager, at that moment, is going to panic, will not know what to do. We'll probably cover it up and pretend it didn't happen. A leader is going to try to solve it. He's going to try to have a discussion with you, because she's going to respect you as their leader or me as their leader, whoever, and they will reach consensus to what's best, not for him, not for me, but what's the best interest for the company. And that's when you know you have a Super Bowl winning team, and then you can win Super Bowls for them, back to back to back. And then you got to make sure that they don't get sidetracked, because that's when the other problems start, you know. And I've seen that happening. They start, you know, thinking crazy things, and, you know, they want to go party and this and that. You got to provide them structure in not only work related, but essentially to mimic your mentorship, your your your leadership. And leadership is a very hard thing. No one was born with it. That's what I realized. They know strategically what to do, but they were trained to become leaders. So if you're a great player and you want to be now the coach make another great quarterback. I say make me maybe more than one half, two or three quarterbacks, and then just go win all the Super Bowls. It's really as it gets but in this first one or two years, man, it's going to be hard. And honestly, I think the absentee business, in a way, I missed it. And, you know, I was telling our shareholders, and I was telling my brother in law and our partners, I was like, man, it was so much easier. You know, we didn't do anything. Now we have a mission and a vision, and we're in the trenches, and until you come out of that trenches, you just got to be able to accept them. But it's extremely rewarding, because I've seen that model worked time after time, and he has huge gains, huge, huge gains. So hey, man, I'm always in the trenches somehow, but now I'm a little bit less because I have my generals, you know, handling some of those trenches. So I consider myself absentee from the factory. I consider myself absentee from the restaurant. Runs, but they know where to find me, and they know where to find my generals. And there's times where my generals are going to go there, and it's going to humble them even more by going there, understanding, resolving the issue with them, giving them more direction, following up on them to make sure that they're consistent, make sure everybody's lined up, and then slowly, you'll see things turn around, because everything is cyclical, and what happens when that big problem happens? You know what they used to tell us in manufacturing, you should expect a major issue, that it would worth more than a million dollars in a claim every 10 years, cyclically. And that's when I was on the board of Mac casualty, and that's an offshore insurance company for food manufacturers and others as well. So if you are going to see something major about to come and hit you, you need to work on mitigating it, and you can rely on accountants or consultants or everybody else, you got to do what's right, and you got to say, I'm not accepting this, and your generals will be just like you. Your go to people will be just like you, and they will know, and they will know what to do. They will know what's right, what's the right thing to do, and when they know what's the right thing to do, then you will have a lot less worries, and then you will see your business grow. And you know what's interesting. No one wants to come and join you and give you $200,000 to start your business, but once you build your business, that's when they come, right? And I tell them, what's the point? You don't want to be with me from the beginning when I have to struggle to go into the $200,000 to do XYZ, but you want to join me at the 200,000 there's no point. There's no point for you to join me then, because then you need me. I don't need you. It's it's how the system works. So I've seen that with I've seen that with even bigger companies, right? So you sell like soda, and you know, you're not good enough for Coca Cola or for Pepsi to put in what you want them to until your numbers are at that level. Well, once they're at that level, then they both beg you to be in there. They both give you money. I mean, they give you equipment and money and rewards and marketing funds and all sorts of things. But why aren't they there from day one?

Speaker 1  47:29
Yeah, yeah, they're, they're almost like leeches at that point.

Speaker 2  47:33
All of them are. And you know what? You know what hurts the most is that majority, majority of the majority of the country is small businesses and entrepreneurs, because that's what our country is all about, right? And that's the American spirit. That's the American dream. But when you start knocking on the door to make that American dream, they will knock you endlessly. They will deny you. They will decline you endlessly. And then you start wondering and wondering, Well, if that bigger company goes in and applies for, I don't know, like, $30 million or they get this much right off, or they doing this or that, why aren't we getting what we should get from a small business standpoint? And that's what, you know, that's what's amazing. Our country is made by small business owners and entrepreneurs and smaller scale companies. I'm not talking about the fortune big companies. And there's a difference when you work for epic Double Decker, or when you work for epic, you work for a family. You know, I know my guy, Shane, is going to come up. And I said, Hey, man, today I have a date. You think I can leave early? Yeah, go ahead. Good luck saying that's a bigger core, a bigger corporation. You just can't do that, or you will have a financial difficulty. And you'll come up and you'll say, You know what, man, my car broke down, and I need 600 bucks. I don't have it. And that's when you know, you'll give it to them, and then they'll pay you back over time, and they will appreciate that, where the bigger corporation is not going to do that, and why not? They have the money, they have the resources, they just want, they will not do it. So I prefer to work mostly with small scale business. I prefer to build things with what I envision, and I prefer to do it with people who have a lot of care, love and respect, and I call them, you know, my extended family, and it's a hard road because we make huge sacrifices time wise. But you know what Chobani made that and all these people who were with him from the beginning, if you look them up, they're all millionaires today, multi multi millionaires. They made the investment of time, talent, treasure, and they all get it together. And that's one of my most favorite stories that I've heard, the Chobani story. I'm sure that there's flank of companies out there, but. But when you're in the trenches with your guys, they'll do everything look, I was looking for like a large piece of machinery. And you know, my favorite line is that everybody says, what's the plan? I said, we don't have a plan. I said, we're gonna go and get that machine. And they said, how? I said, I think I have one in Chicago. So we found this particular machine. I called this guy up and I said, I'm coming there to test this machine and do it. So I called my guy and I said, prepare the product. Prepare what we need. We're going to Chicago, and it's like, it's crazy. That's insanity. It's like, what? Overnight, overnight. We fly to Chicago overnight. We barely get any sleep. We wake up in the morning. We're lost. Trying to find a place we take our product. We go there. We test this machine. And then I have two other guys on standby, and I said, get on the flight. Get over here, Lisa. You hold truck. You're picking this machine. You bring me back in two days. Monday, we were back up in business. So you gotta, you gotta make some crazy, crazy sacrifices throughout this process, and you're just going to have some really good leadership. You're going to have a really good captain, a really good Admiral that knows what the heck he's talking about, and he is able to put his ego and his pride down and look at his command and speak to his generals and say, Do you have a better option than this? Do we have a better avenues? No, well, then, then that's all we're doing, and that's what you're going to do. You're going to keep on twist and turn until you find your direction, and then things will eventually become much, much smaller, but it will take time. So you will struggle financially. You will struggle. Struggle organizationally, I call it to fix the chain of command, but you also got to understand, I know I call them generals, and metaphorically speaking, but it's, it's, it's organizational behavior. This is a regular Organizational Behavior class that anybody can take and read a book and understand the culture and how you can transform a culture, how you can transform a team. So it's,

Unknown Speaker  52:02
it's it's gonna be, it's gonna be a journey, for sure.

Speaker 1  52:06
Okay, um, this has been great, Ted. I really appreciate you Sure. Bye. Do you mind taking questions from people on the live I don't mind of them guys. I know there were some questions in the in the comments. One of them in particular, was about real estate, about acquiring real estate with business funds. Because I think you mentioned that earlier. Can you speak to that a little bit? Yeah.

Speaker 2  52:29
I mean, look, the one thing that is tremendously helpful is that, you know, you buy the pizza store that above it has an apartment kind of a thing, and you lease the apartment, and you get a, you know, people would go and get a finance it, and then they will also finance it two differently. They will finance it as commercial. They'll finance it also as residential. Philadelphia is notorious for that. It has both. It has, you know, pizza store on the bottom and on the top there is, there's apartments. That is the best possible model to go after, if you can find that. That is great, because when the real estate is included, that part of the real estate can be used as collateral. If something does go south, the first thing that someone is going to look for is, what is your collateral? And collateral, to me, is either the building which it's ideal to have, and then you also, of course, have some apartments in the top or or the equipment, you got to look at the equipment, very extremely careful, because you can get a much easier commercial loan on that equipment that you have that is your collateral at that point at that moment. So if you have significant amount of equipment, you're also going to have a good amount of depreciation as well. So I look at those two things carefully.

Speaker 1  53:53
Okay, I'll just open it up to questions. If anybody has any questions for Ted about anything.

Unknown Speaker  54:08
Don't be shy. So sorry. Let me come online.

Unknown Speaker  54:17
I will say

Speaker 3  54:20
I'm looking at the third of today. Compare yourself to where we are right now. Like, you know, what would be one advice you would give the third of yesterday, which you were going to give us right now, and for the banks or those financial institutions that don't want to lend you money, like I have been personally grinding with my business, and I started from scratch. There's this bank that I feel like is not doing me right right now, and the money is about to come in with our business, and I'm telling myself, I'm breaking things with it. I'm moving my my stuff to another bank. I. Did you ever do anything like that, and was the beneficial when you did, if you ever did? Thank you.

Speaker 2  55:09
Well, thank you. That was a really good question. That was really good question, by the way. So yes, that did happen to me, and it continues to happen, even when the business is much bigger, and even if it's multiple businesses, right? So when you work with a bank, a whatever we want to call it, there's different banks. When you work with a bank and you realize that this bank is not participating, is not listening to your business model, okay, what I've done is that I left that bank, I closed all my accounts, and I went to another bank and I gave them the exact same feel, the exact same pitch of, what is it that I'm going to do with these funds, and what am I going to use as collateral? Am I using the building? Okay, it's great, because then I can get loan to value, even up to 75% especially when it's residential mixed with commercial use. So if that's a mixed use, it's great. You get great amount of lending from that. Because most banks will look at that, they will say, Well, if something goes bad, I'll get the building at least. Or I look at the equipment, I tell you know, I was telling Shane earlier, well, if I have a million dollars worth of equipment, that is my collateral. So if the bank doesn't want to come in and give me a commercial loan on that equipment, or if the bank doesn't want to come in and give me a mixed use loan with collateral of that, you know, of that building, then honestly, that bank is not in, it in with me to achieve those goals. So that did happen to me, and I actually left the bank, and I went with another bank who actually was extremely helpful, much more. And then the advice that I would give the tad of the past to where I am now,

Unknown Speaker  57:01
I would say,

Speaker 2  57:06
you know, I would say that nothing is impossible to that person who will try, because all you have to do is try. And I'm stealing another line from Alexander the Great here, okay, who was a great general in time. But it's not impossible to knock on the door and someone is going to tell you, no, not to this model, not to that model, not to that model. And I've heard multiple things on, you know, little competitions that people do, and there's also a lot of educational competitions that people do, that you can raise funds. Penn State is a great example that they do that. It's like they have their own version of, like, kind of the Shark Tank, and they win grants. So there's a lot of institutions around that they do that. And I'm one of the one of their judges in the in their competition, which is amazing, by the way. I think that's one of the most wonderful things that that I've seen, because you see the true spirit of entrepreneurs. You see the small business, the struggles that they have to become, who they need to become. And then you will see the bigger the bigger company, or the bigger lending organization that's going to come in, and they're gonna say, Yeah, you know what you're doing so wonderful, we're willing to lend your money? Well, you weren't there on day one. And I moved on, and I moved on from one bank to another and to another. So and at the same time, I'm going to tell you one thing, even that the bank that you have like this has this happened to me most recently, I'm going to tell you one thing for certain, if they're giving you a loan and they're giving you 5% or whatever the case is, continue to shop around until you get the rate that you want. So that happened to me recently. I was working with a bank, and I said, this is what I want. The percentage was, I think, like nearly 5% and I told them, flat out, if you don't match it at 3.9 then I'm out. I'm going to close all my accounts and everything else. And you know what's interesting, these people who weren't there with you at the beginning, they will say, Well, I thought we're friends. No, we're not. We're not friends. We're there for business, and honestly, you're there for me to park all that money. So why should I be in it with you, if you don't share the same mission and vision, and then you will see it. And I'm telling you that I've seen them do a quick U turn saying, well, we don't want to lose this. You know, he may have five other businesses here. We don't want to lose that, so we'll support it all. Suddenly you'll support it, simply because you don't want to lose something out. So you have to take a hard line, and you have to say, no, if the lowest potential rate Okay, on a commercial loan is 3.932 whatever the number is, they have to match it and do better. And when they tell you that, no, thank you, we're not interested at that business model or whatever the case is. We don't see that working out with the business plan. Go to the next bank and go to the next bank and go the next bank. Uh, until you get it, until you get it approved, and each one of them, my only suggestion would say, what is it that you don't like in it? You know, there might be something inadequate on the paperwork. There may be something that they'll give you, like a fresher perspective, that you will be able to update it for the next bank and the bank that will approve it. Eventually, someone will approve it. I feel that someone will will approve it. So it's going to be very hard. I'm telling you, it's going to be very, very hard, especially at the beginning, extremely hard, but it's not impossible.

Speaker 3  1:00:36
I just want to say, thank you so much, and Shane, it's been a blessing just knowing you like, I can't tell you how much I'm learning every single day, like, for me, these are investment and Ted, just listening to you talk the passion that you brought here, like you made my evening. Thank you so so much.

Speaker 2  1:00:59
Oh, you're very welcome. Listen, patience. I'm going to tell you one thing. My parents started from nowhere. They had not a single dollar. They came into this country without even $1 into their bank account. So I wasn't born with a golden spoon, right? So when I was about two years old, I moved to Greece with my parents, because basically, my parents were working hard at the time and financially. I don't want to say they couldn't afford us, but they couldn't really take care of us. So I was raised by my grandmother. My grandmother lived in a village with 5000 people, and I was away from my mom and my dad, and we didn't have indoor plumbing. We have outdoor plumbing. Okay? So my grandmother, at nine o'clock would say, Listen, it's time to go use the restroom. After that, that's it, you know, until next day, and you have to walk to school, whether it's rain, whether it's snow, whether whatever it is. So I tell people that if you don't have the passion and if you can put your ego and your pride away to do what's needed to be successful in the business, and you think it's just going to fall from the sky. It's not. You have to work and you have to keep on working your way up. But it's so much easier to work your way up when you have so many people with you, or two or three people who believe in you, and you believe in them, and they work as hard and you want them to you know you're mentoring them and you're training them. It makes it so much easier, because people will say, Well, how hard can it be? It's extremely hard to start a new business. But look at what the United States is made out of small businesses, people like you and me, and you know what I love the best is that I love to promote the people within and I'd love to see our business grow. So every night when I pray, you know what I pray for? I pray for me being capable to support the business and my families and all the families who work with us. I will never say they work for me. I said they work with us. And if these people work with us, the reward will always be there, and we make the reward, we'll share the reward as much as possible. But when you realize and you can humble yourself to do that, I'm going to go back to Alexander the Great line, nothing is impossible. You just have to keep on trying, and you got to keep on trying, and you got to keep on trying. And believe me when I say that, I had plenty of doors closing my face, I've heard a lot of no's, a lot of disappointments, a lot of big problems, a lot of small problems, but I treated them all the exact same way, with the same with the same care. So keep on doing your very best. Don't give up. Okay, if you have a business model that is something that you believe in, honestly, put it together. Create a good business plan. Nowadays, it's a little bit easier, you know, there's AI. So my guys are like, Let's drop this on chat GPT. You know, everything is dropped on chat GPT with these guys nowadays. So I mean, that's just from chat GPT one day. I love them for it, but it's hilarious at the same time. But now we have the technology and the tools that they will help us polish a better business plan that will become more appealing to that lending institution right where before, we really didn't even have that. So for us, 20 years ago, it was a lot harder, because there was many times that I sit there and I spoke to Mr. Nick and Mr. George, and would say, we want to buy this machine. And they would say, Yeah, but we don't have the money for it, and we knew no one's going to lend it to us, so we had to take it out of, you know, retain earning, so we won't get paid my first salary when I started working, which is not a secret, it was $30,000 I mean, minus the taxes to live in. Philadelphia, right? You couldn't live in an apartment, kind of a thing. And I, and I went through all that part of the process until I kept you just, you got to keep on claiming right? So keep on doing that.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:16
Thank you. Best of luck.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:21
Great question. Anybody else got questions for Ted,

Speaker 4  1:05:30
sure? What was the first business Ted? Thanks for everything. Everything was super great. Learned a lot. Yeah, so I don't think we heard about your the first business you ever owned. Was this something you know? What was the first business? What is you get into? How do you fund it? Did you have previous experience in that business beforehand? And let's hear about that experience, please.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:53
No previous

Speaker 2  1:05:59
experience. The businesses that we're in is continuously to be in the food service industry. I mean, the food service is what we know. I've been partially involved in real estate and managing the real estate portion of the company, and also an automotive business as well. But the first business that that we got ourselves into is always the food service, and that is either whether it's the manufacturing aspect or, you know, the retail aspect of it. And the way that we funded that it was from retained earnings, continuous retained earnings, really hard retained earnings, in in combination with a small business loan and also with programs that the state or the city has. So for instance, Philadelphia has the Pennsylvania Industrial Department of corporations, which basically will loan you $5 million for instance, you know to start a business at a very low interest rate. So we took advantage. We took advantage of multiple things. One is lending institutions. Two was grants that they had lower interest because eventually you got to pay all back. And three all, most of it was out of retained earnings. A lot of it was out of retained earnings, especially in the first in the first acquisitions. As the model continues to grow, it becomes easier, but it's not going to be easy on the very first one, and if you don't have a really good business plan, back to the previous question, that lending institution isn't going to come in and help to come in and help you either, because they ask you for sales and they can ask you for experience, and you won't have either one of them. And I don't think anyone got into any business with having either one of them or having both of them together, matter of fact. So I don't think most of the people who get into a new industry will have the experience, because if they had the experience, and they would have been in that industry, that they could acquire someone who's retiring from a pizza store or an auto parts store, or whatever the case is, and there would be some sort of a master mechanic. I'm not a master mechanic, and I'm not the guy that actually even knew how to make a pizza, believe it or not. So. And the first pizza that I made, I burned it, you know. And people were like, dude, this guy doesn't know what he's talking about. Well, over time you you'll have to learn. And over time, you're going to go to different lending institutions there, Joseph, and you're going to say, well, I need to borrow X amount of money, and you have to be able to convince them into the mission and vision by also, you know, providing a business plan. And a business plan is always great, up until you encounter your big first problem, which is usually that you're not going to pull revenue for X amount of time, you're just going to be satisfying your your business loans, so until things take off.

Speaker 1  1:09:09
And what I've learned too about about getting funding is it's not only about the numbers and the experience, it's also about being able to get that lender on your side, because they can go to bat for you if you're if you're a little bit under their guidelines. But they they believe in the same thing you believe in you can overcome some deficiency in experience and down payment and credit history, because they have a lot more power than you think they do. If they go to their committee, and they say, Hey, this guy, Joseph, he's on it. He's got a good deal. His credit isn't quite where we usually want it. That will go further than just about anything else that they're on.

Speaker 2  1:09:52
Yeah, if you I agree with that, if you can pitch the concept to someone, it goes a lot far. Better than the business plan, model versus collateral versus anything else. I mean, let's look at historically, Facebook, great model, great great profit, great idea behind it. In order for that to get funded, whether you call that private equity, whether you call that IPO, whether you call that small business loan, whether you call that a commercial business loan, whether you call that a, you know, a, what do you call it a Building Loan? Right for that asset that you're buying, they're not going to give you that loan to value until they believe into what is your objective. And I agree with Shane, that person that sits on that desk from a lending standpoint, can go to bat for you. They really can, and they can give you great rates, and they can even get you approved for certain things. So in that in that model, you have to be very careful. You know how you approach it, and honestly, if you're really passionate about it, then you don't need to feel you don't need to write down a whole presentation on it. You just, you know, you just go and talk to these people and you tell them what this is, and they will eventually give you what you need in order to move forward. Now there's those who can do and there's those who can teach. So if you're going to do it, you're going to take some risk. You are being you're preparing yourself to take a risk. Do you believe that you can satisfy that risk? That's what it comes down to. In the beginning, I'll tell you one thing, most people have no fear in certain things because they have nothing to lose. They'll take any any risk. But as you're going to climb up, you're going to take smaller and smaller steps into a lot of things that you will do, and those steps will have, always repercussions. So you have to be understanding of that. You'll take bigger risks at the front end. You'll take smaller risks at the back end. Either way, you're taking a risk either way, every day you mitigating risk, and every day you look at the tolerance of risk that you're willing to take in any type of business, even if you're an absentee owner, if you're an absentee owner, and you buy a business and something major happens, that every insurance plans on catastrophically, seeing that. How are you going to handle that? It could be an operator error. You know, someone can lift someone on a lift, and they fall off the left. Then what happens? And then you have a major workers come are you, you know, the person who is making that risk all I'm going to say one thing is, make sure you're really well insured to, you know, make sure you have good insurance. Make sure you have, you know, you speak to an agent and you get all of the insurances that you need because, for some odd reason, you only need the insurance when you don't have it, you know, that's when you really need the insurance. And you're like, oh, man, I didn't have this insurance. So my other suggestion would be, yeah, make sure you're very well insured before you assume any risk. Insure your business. You know whether it's workers comp or business policy, or whether it's product recall, or whatever business you're in, make sure you speak to a qualified agent, a certified agent, right for your state, wherever you are, and you know, and you get all the right insurances in place. That's That's another thing, but lending institutions will eventually turn you down. And my other suggestion would be, like going into a smaller lending institution in the beginning, those tend to work even a little bit better. I think if you walk into Wells Fargo, and you're gonna ask them for a million dollars, and you have no collateral, no previous experience, yeah, I can see that door closing relatively quick. But if you go to like, some sort of a credit union or to, like a smaller lending institution. That's how I did it. It always works out. You always start with that local branch, the local branch, someone that you can actually speak with, someone who you can actually pitch the the idea, right? And then, of course, they can get an approval much quicker than they would get it out of wells, Fargo or one of those PNC, larger banks you go to, like your local credit union, or the local brands that is in Colombia, Missouri, or whatever it is, you'll get it. You'll get it. You'll have a better you'll have a better chance of getting that because, like I said, the bigger companies want these other bigger companies, and they always want to ensure that they get their money back. So if they don't know you, what would they give it to you? That's literally, I'm not kidding. I actually said that to Coca Cola flat out. Why do I need you when I have $3 million in sales, I don't need you. I thought. Point, I can go to Pepsi, I can go to even the local food distributor that distributes products, and I can have whether I want Pepsi today or Coca Cola tomorrow. You can dictate what I can do. And those bigger companies don't like that, and I mean that in a good way, and then they'll make a deal with you, even when you're the smaller guy, they'll say, What do you want? This is what I want. I want the same treatment. I want the same deal that you would give a bigger company so I can become a bigger company and stick with you, and they'll give it to you. Coca Cola will cooperate, and Pepsi will cooperate, and the food distributors will cooperate, and the bank will cooperate when they know that you're going to be in that with them for the long term, and then, yeah, if they see you're making your payments and you're doing well, and you continue to grow business with them, honestly, you can go back into that lending institution a whole bunch of times, and they will continue giving it to you again. They're looking for collateral. It's the building, or is it the inventory? What is it that they have? Is it parts? Is it the commercial part? There's some machines that they can worth four or five, $600,000 altogether. You know, that's like half the battle, right there. When you buy, like a pizza store, type of a thing, automotive repair shop, it has a lot of tools. Factories is all about equipment. Factories is all about equipment. 90% of the cost is equipment. Nothing is cheap on a factory. So everything has something that the bank wants in the event something goes bad, that they can first be the first ones to come in and take it. And whether that you're even a larger distributor, that, let's just say you're a large distributor, and you're distributing products throughout the Mid Atlantic, and you have 50 trucks that you want to get a loan for. They want to know that they will be the first to have the money on those trucks. No one else so small risks, small rewards, big risks, big rewards.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:53
And as you continue to grow, you will realize the the

Speaker 2  1:16:56
appetite of the bigger risk continues to reduce and reduce and reduce. And one thing that I did discover, when I wasn't married and I was single, the level of risk tolerance, oh, man, it was a lot higher than when I got married. You know, you have to discuss things with your wife all the time. You know, that's always a fun topic, into what you believe in, what she's like, What No, you know, you want to put my car is collateral. Are you crazy? You know, you want to mortgage up the house?

Speaker 1  1:17:25
No, it's insane. Yeah, you have to run it up the chain of command. You got to ask that.

Speaker 2  1:17:29
That's your chain of command. Then your chain of command is your wife. And, you know, many times I tell people, they're like, like, who's the CEO of our business? I'm like, many times in my head I'm thinking, like, probably my wife isn't I just don't know but back then, look, the risk was high, man, I just take all the risks that, all the risks that I want. You know you can, you can do amazing things, but there's also amazing rewards. And you know you gotta, you gotta know the level of the industry and the product that you're producing, and you know, you got to forecast it of where you're seeing it grow. And what I really love is value add businesses. I love value add businesses that they can have an absentee owner. Man. Those are like little pockets and treasures of gold. Those are the best if you can find that. Buy that every day, all day.

Speaker 3  1:18:23
What, what kind of businesses are those? Can you, like, specify value added business? Can you give an example?

Speaker 2  1:18:30
Yeah, look, a value add business is a business that someone has not realized its value, which is, if you're looking at, we can use an automotive repair shop, we can use real estate. We can use whatever you want here as an example. But if you're going to look at, you know, the most recent one that I was actively participating on, okay, when you look at an automotive repair shop, right, that has the potential of servicing more than five brands, and now they can service 25 brands, and that the owner doesn't have the historical data to prove its earnings and its value like it's ibida, so they look in earnings before interest and depreciation, right? Tax and depreciation. So when you look at a business and let's just say this business makes 500,000 okay, what he doesn't realize is that this business could make one and a half million dollars on year. One is because they're servicing five brands. But there is over 50 brands of cars. That's beautiful. That is a huge value add. They just don't see what you see. Another great thing in the food service industry, it's no differently that you're saying this area loves pizza. But do you know that they actually like also chicken, and if you bring in a freshly made Nashville hot chicken product, right? And you really. Market yourself correctly. People will love it. Great example, Nashville hot chicken. Dave's hot chicken, a concept sold for $1 billion you know what they have in there? Literally almost, I don't want to put them, almost nothing they have, like a fryer, bedding machine. I mean, you can build that business. Nashville, hot chicken for, like, I don't know, tops, 200,000 tops. And these guys started that concept, and they kept on expanding it, expanding it, expanding it worth a billion dollars. So these value add businesses when someone doesn't realize the potential of the business, and you buy it, and you make small, small changes to the business that can tremendously grow. Then you're seeing something that someone else is not seeing. A great example was when waste management saw that you can actually make money from waste management, right? And they start taking those plastic bottles and everything else in the building a facility, and then start recycling. Start recycling it. They realized that they had evaluated business. That's how waste management continued to grow, by acquiring all the other smaller guys. And people were like, What are they seeing? Well, they saw that they were making more money by collecting these bottles and separating them. They made a lot more money than someone else. So someone's someone's trash for lack of better words, or someone's value add. It's someone else's it's someone else's treasure. I call them value add business. And if you find that, and if you see something that they they don't see, great. I mean, you buy it and you add on to it. Uh, you know, the automotive example is, I think, the easiest one to understand. If you're only servicing, you know, like VW, Audi and Porsche, look at how many more car brands there are. So advertise that, and we've tried that, and I've tried that, and I'm telling you that one day I ran an ad on Google ads, and I was telling them. I said, you know, I asked the general manager, I said, Why can't you repair a Toyota? He said, Who told you that I can't? I said, Well, you don't, why can't you repair a Chevy? He goes, who told you that I can't? He said, Of course we can. So I did a really quick reel. It was like 18 seconds real, and I blasted that everywhere the next day. And I'm not kidding when I say the next day, they had over 20 Toyotas and Chevys coming into their parking lot. They were like, what just happened? They just realized that this business now had what I call value add. And the reason why I did it is because that I knew that this business that I was positioning to sell, it wasn't going to sell at all. It wasn't going to sell to anyone. It had almost zero value. So you can be there forever, permanently, like 2030, years. And if you don't see that the value add, and if you don't create the structure, that other person is never going to buy the business, whether it's an automotive or whether you want to call that a pizza store, why should they buy it? They don't know anything of what you're doing. There is no sense of direction. And what value now does the brand have with a sense of direction? And when you change their P L, and when you change their EBITDA has a lot more value, and that person who can take it can do definitely a lot more. The same thing works in the food service industry. If you know that this is just a pizza shop that sells nothing else, put salads in, put chicken in, put in other categories. Advertise it. Make a real and see how many people like it. I'll give you an example in most recently. So in one of the, you know, a double decker, double decker was known for making pen style pizza. And I told them, I think that we can actually make Italian style, which is, you know, quite a lot faster to produce. It's a lot easier, a lot faster, different style of pizza right now, it is the dominant type of pizza that we sell, but we made a real and you see, like this girl she's talking about, you know, fresh made pizza. It's a two minute grill. Over 45,000 people saw it, and from there on that, we just kept on selling the same pizza over and over and over and over. So it takes that pizza literally, what five minutes to make. What are the other one? It takes much longer. You gotta proof it. You gotta you have to use machines for it. You have to use proofers for it. You have to go in the morning. There's a lot of labor that goes to it. And when everybody said that we cannot do that, that's the number one selling pizza. And we call that the epic pizza today. So we named it after us. So one reel with a girl that my right hand guy found right. Uh, she made a two minute reel. And I was like, this is never going to work. And some people said, matter of fact, quite frankly, it's distasteful of what we've seen, and we can't believe this is coming out of a double deckers. Well, we have a different clientele, 45,000 views immediately, and everybody's buying the epic pizza now. So we have to take a risk there, and we had to run it. And I'm telling you that some of the even staff, they're like, Oh, we're really scared of this. This is not a good idea. This is a bad, bad idea. Why are we doing this? And it really worked out. The same thing worked out in the automotive we had a lot of naysayers, but they kept on saying, No, man, this is not going to work on on the social media advertising, I've seen it spike over two and 300% incredibly, an amount of people who seen something else. So now they started servicing not only BMWs and whatever, Chevys and Ford and and everything else. And there's more to it. If you somebody has their mindset to it, there's more to it. There is car competitions. There is car enthusiasts. There's car clubs that you can attract. You can put in a $500 award for the best X type of a car. It doesn't matter what it is, BMW, whatever. And you will see those clubs. You know, there's a club just on Jeep car that there's probably over two or 3000 members almost in every city. And these people will show up for a car competition. There's always a value add into a business if you see it, and if you take the opportunity to capitalize on it, for lack of better words. And if you can capitalize on it, then you just got to incorporate the brand in it. And if you can incorporate the brand and you have a winner from them. So, you know, it's like taking someone's idea and making it a lot better, for lack of better words, because it has the possibility to expand. So those are the two different industries. One is automotive. One is food service. I can tell you an example in real estate too. But you know, the real estate mixed use is the best way to go about it. It really, it really, tremendously is. And obviously, you all seen what happened with the boom in construction building over apartments, which was insanity. What people were building. They were building it for 2% interest rates. They would go and get a construction loan, and then they would just build, let's just say, 20 apartments on a construction loan, right? Their goal was to stabilize it. Was to get a whole bunch of people to lease it. Then they literally sold the asset, right? They made over 30% on their investment. That's what they do. They sold it. Make 20 and 30% over on their investment, move the loan out. Okay, paid the construction loan. They took the risk, obviously, from the construction, and they moved on. And the money, now that they had the retained earnings, instead of them being taxed for them and all that other legal accounting stuff, they invested it to the next one. That's what those big companies did. And they build, you know, instead of 10 apartments, 20 and 30 and 150 and 150 and 203 100 1000s of apartments, and they kept on doing that model, and that's how they grew. But that was their model into the into the

Unknown Speaker  1:28:11
into the boom of

Speaker 2  1:28:14
of real estate. But you can do the same thing in the automotive industry. If you think about it, you can take the exact same concept and you can open up more than one facility. If you have two good generals, you can take that one pizza store, and you can open up four and five and six, and now a manufacturing company behind it too. There's a lot of things if you do it, but you got to have a sense of direction and stage it to where you are now, and where do you want to be, and while you are in those trenches going along with yourself and somebody else, make sure that they're always there. And you got to remind these people all the time, like, Hey, we're in the trenches now, but we'll be out of the trenches at some point. And when we're out of the trenches, that's when everybody's going to see it rewarded.

Speaker 1  1:28:55
Very important to share your vision with with the people that work with you. Very, very important.

Speaker 2  1:29:01
It's, it's, it's very hard to share the vision, but if you consistently do it, I'm pretty sure that the people who are with me most of the time, they're kind of tired of me being repetitive. It's, it's repetitive, repetitive. It's got to drill deep down to them that this is important to me. This is my vision, and this is how we go from A to Z and we go in it together. Don't deviate from it. We will make adjustments to the plan throughout. We will have meetings, we will have consensus, but we have to grow now. We don't want one repair shop. We want five, just like those big companies did. We don't want five apartments, we want five skyscrapers. And they did it, and food factories, if you look at it, how Tyson grew, how the chobanis grew. You know, Chobani recently acquired a coffee company. They're not even in the same field. You know, lack alone was acquired for $1 billion from Chobani. I mean, insane, but all these companies grow by acquisition. When you make an acquisition of an established business already, you're either going to pay the premium for the brand, and you either seeing something to this brand that is going to give you some sort of, some sort of into some other industry, some sort of synergy, for lack of better words, right? Or you're going to see some tremendous value add that you're going to take it and you're going to capitalize on it. If you can capitalize on it, you make huge on it. If you don't, you're just going to be an absentee owner to quite a lot of different businesses, which is also a great model. It works. I've seen that work. I've seen both models work. So I always try to do a kind of like a little bit of a blame because when you're too much of an absentee kind of a thing and you're you don't do the property management yourself type of thing, and you have apartments, whatever that is, or Airbnb, you get bored pretty quick. Man. I mean, for me particularly, I like to be involved and do things. I did this for like, four or five years, and I was like, this is boring. You know, I want to be more kind of hands on and see something that has tremendous more value. It's not different than those people. So Bitcoin. Who would have thought that Bitcoin was worth what they worth, but they saw something. But one guy actually gave that Bitcoin to someone to buy pizza. That was the biggest tip in the world's history. You know that because they didn't see that value at that time, but someone else did and held on to it. So if you see a value in a business, I call it I call it value ads. And those were my three different examples between real estate, automotive and even the food service industry, you capitalize on that. Or the other thing you do, honestly, is you work with somebody extremely talented, somebody with a mission and a vision, and you want to be part of that direction, and that sense of the company, where it's going. And that's going to give you an in so again, back to the Chobani story. Yeah, Chobani. The owner of Chobani may be a billionaire, but everybody else is a millionaire. So if you can't do it alone, do it with someone else. And there's three types of people that say those who can lead, those who can follow, and those who can need to be out of the way. Which one are you? If you're going to lead, you make sure you lead and you have a whole bunch of followers, if you're not going to be a follower or a leader, then you need to get out the way, and you got to let somebody else do it so you can make that money. So one of my professors and Joe, used to call it the good, the bad and the ugly. I call it, I call it a little bit different, because, you know, lead, follow or get out the way, those are three things that I always have in mind. And if I can lead a particular project, I say, Hey, Oh, Nick, take over this. I want you to lead this. And again, there has not been a leader who was born as a leader, naturally a great leader. They were all taught from Alexander the Great till today's age. They were all taught, and they had a mentor. So usually the follower becomes the leader. Usually the great quarterback, the Tom Bradys of the world. They become the great coaches of the world, you know. And if you look at the model of even in sports, which I'm not good in sports, Michael Jordan played with the Chicago Bulls, if you think about it, and they followed the coach, and their coach was a great coach. Phil Jackson did a great job. They won how many championships. So Michael Jordan, in multiple of his interviews, said that he followed a leader, but everybody else followed him as a leader, and that team played wonderfully before he was even a superstar, one of the greatest of all times, probably the greatest of all times, right in basketball. Now, when Phil Jackson left and he went to Los Angeles, and he formed a team there, what did he do? He created the formation. He bought the crowbs. He bought the Shaquille O'Neals. How many champions did Phil Jackson win? Again? One coach has more rings in championships than any other coach. Okay? Because she knew how to make a great team. He had his generals lined up, and they were all part of that shared mission and vision, and they were winning championships after championships after championships. And look at the success that they had behind it. But they all fall with that one leader. They didn't play for anyone else. And I'll tell you, what, if you look at history, and I don't know that on top of my head, maybe somebody can chat GPT, then I don't know if there's any other success rate when somebody deviates and they think that it's better and it's greener on the other side of the grass, because usually it's not. I mean, we could Google it, or we can chat GPT it, but it's not stick with that leadership. If you want to be the follower and you want the reward, you will get it. And if you are going to have adequate training, then. Maybe one day you will be that leader, just like what you've learned from them. Even the biggest CEOs in the world are being groomed by other CEOs. They didn't just walk in because they had tremendous experience. There's people who have educational background experience by far higher than most of the top CEOs around our country, but they were groomed by other leaders to be in those positions, and they went from being number two into being number one, and they will have to keep on making that model work continuously. And that's what I tell all my guys, you know, if you want to walk on my footsteps and you want to take leadership at that point, you know, small areas, one at a time, you got to go through the trenches. And there's no excuses, like, you know what, this week, and I have something to do. No, no, that there is no, there is no way you can achieve both. If you're going to think you're going to be able to achieve both, you just can't. You got to make a sense of direction. And if you're going to decide that you're going to build your career and financially build that model, you have to focus and dedicate yourself to it. I'm not saying neglect your family, but or whoever it is, a significant other, but I'm saying if you think you're going to be able to balance it 5050, didn't work for me. Still doesn't work for me. I work probably up until 2am every day, and I wake up right about 536, o'clock in the morning, and I cover all my topics, so I can dedicate as much as time as possible with the rest of the team. And you have to be really passionate to achieve that. So it's great. Look, man, I sleep like, if I get four hours of sleep, I'm great. I just have a bunch, like, a whole bunch of, you know, Diet Cokes or or some coffee, you know, and I'm back and rolling. I gotta do what I gotta do. But if you want to keep on growing, you have to search for those opportunities. You know, if I know that there's a pizza store in Westchester that I want to transform, then I need to invest how to buy it at its lowest possible price and see something that this guy is incapable of seeing. So I can go in with a team of people that they know what to do. So I can tell my my chain of command. People like, look, you'd be in charge of this store, but I want you to do what we usually do. Then I don't need to hold his hand. He knows what to do. He knows what to change. He knows how to approach the system. But then everything else is a cookie cutter. If you think about it, it's the same point of sale in the automotive world. Man, the first time I said, What's the point of sale that you guys are using? They're like, what is that? I'm like, we are so doomed. So what do you write things in a pen and paper? I said, we are so doomed. So you got to modernize it as much as possible, because you have certain control functions of it, and you can see it grow. If not, you're just gonna, you're just gonna say, look, I expect from this store to get 10 grand every month, and 5000 of that is going to go to my payments. And you have to accept that if you're going to say that I want to make 50 grand out of it. Lead, follow, get out the way. There's no other way. Believe me, I've tried it both. You know what? I was for the longest time. I was the follower, and I am proud to say that I was the follower of Nick and George man. These two guys ran me in circles. I mean, half the stuff didn't make sense, repetitive every day. But did I learn? Yeah, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them to and, you know, there were great people that they would take the shirt off their back and give it to you whatever you needed. If I went up to them and said, gotta take my wife out, you know, they'd be like, Alright, go. If I came in and I wasn't feeling well, don't worry about it. Go home. You can do that in a bigger corporate company, they'd be like, use a PTO, you know, justify. Go to the HR office, talk to them about it, you know. And then you get lost in that chain of command. Not that there's anything wrong with the bigger corporations. I'm just saying that I prefer that family feel company, that we're all in it all together. But many times, you're going to have that stress and that frustration, that, Oh, my goodness. I hope that this all goes well, because now you don't care just about you, you care about your family. You care about their families. They're all like, literally, I don't want to say like resting on your shoulder. They're resting on few people's shoulders. Maybe it's four or five of them, but there could be over 50 people in that organization. So it's not easy to balance it, and it's not easy to achieve it. You're just going to work a lot more hours. And what I do at Tech power maps today at two. A 20 minute partner on the couch, and now I'm good. I'll be good until 233 o'clock in the morning. I got a whole lot of things to do. You know, listen, I speak to people in Asia, in China, I speak to people in London that we're doing things there. We're doing things in China for a company to grow. And I talk to people like on three different time zones. Sometimes I'm confused on what time zone that I am in. So it's fun. And the risk continues to be there, but you're now sharing that risk because, you know the Michael Jordan now he can carry the whole game by himself. If your guy can run the whole factory by himself. Good. If the other one can run the pizza store by himself, great. If the other person can run your automotive repair shop, even better. And if this person can manage your real estate, great. Then you have a lot less to follow up on. You have a perfect team to follow up with, but you have to, you know, set the tone on the expectation. And most of the time they're not going to like it. No one likes to do what they were told, and especially to get out of an old routine. Good luck finding an older person that you're trying to break out of their routine. Those are my longest conversations. Shane, you know what I'm talking about? I do. I am telling you, those are the conversations that I have to sit there and listen. But you know what? I treat them all the same, whether it is I get advice from a 12 year old. I get an advice from an 80 year old. I get advice from a 20 year old, 30 year old, I just sit there and I just listen. I'm like, I wonder if this works for me, you know, because if I pretend that I know it all, it's not gonna work. I learn things every single day, every single every single day, I like to learn a whole bunch of things, something that I did not know and that somebody else told me then. And how can I use that for me? Where is this applicable to me? So I tell people, you go to work to solve problems, and if you're going to solve the problems together with somebody else, great, but there's going to be a time where these people who you're to work with, when you look at them, when I look at one of my guys, and I look at something else, they know exactly what I'm referring to, I don't, it's like, it's like a telepathy, in a way of communicating with someone saying what I'm seeing right there. I'm displeased. I want this fixed. That's when you know you're synced up with your entire team, when they can finish your sentences, and they will be able to finish your sentences, that's when you know you have a great team, and you're going to go through this bell curve, you know you're going to so expect the fact that you're going to see an encounter a problem, and make a decision, be a follower, be a leader, or get out the way those people go out the way. Those are called the absentee owners, and they're okay and comfortable with the amount of money that they get. But let's use the real estate example here, right? What happens if somebody builds a much bigger apartment complex next to you, cheaper, for less? What if somebody opens up a pizza store next to you, smaller, less with with less overhead. What if somebody opens up an automotive repair shop next to you? You're going to have to send your top guys to fix this and compete and do best. And those are the guys. They're not going to say, No man, I'm not going back to this. Oh yes, you are. You're going to help me get this done. And these are the people who believe in you. Because my mentality is that we leave no one behind. We really don't. So in the beginning, in most of my acquisitions, people didn't like me at all. They're like, this guy is annoying. But I feel and I don't know I could be wrong, that most people now can share the mission and vision, and they enjoy us working together, not forming, but working together. And I don't mind. I'll tell you, if I could go do dishes, I would. I think it's you learn a lot. You know, you learn a lot of what's really happening in there, or, I'm not supposed to tell you this part, but you know that thing over there? Yeah, that thing ain't working. What? So you learn a lot. It's always good. Do the dishes if you have to. That's great.

Speaker 1  1:44:14
Yeah, definitely. Ted, this has been fantastic. I really appreciate it. Thank you. I know you're super busy. You know? Thank you for stopping in and and answering and we really, really appreciate it.

Speaker 2  1:44:29
You got it, man. Best of luck to all of your audiences. Great questions. Listen. Good group of what you're putting together. Keep doing what you're doing. I enjoy most of most of our conversations, unless it's one of them that someone is not listening to something. That's when I'm like, we're gonna do it again. But we gotta do what we gotta do to get, you know, to get from point A to Z, right? So it's even that is a shared mission. Vision, Joseph, thank you. I see the tanks down there. Thank. To everyone. Best of luck to everyone. And you know what? I'll tune into this as much as possible, even when I am in Europe traveling, I'm going to tune in just to see what the discussions are. But feel free, you know what, reach out, connect with me on the social media. If you have any questions. Listen, I cannot give you legal account legal or financial advices for accountant, because I'm not an accountant and I'm not an attorney, but all I can do is just share my experiences with you, and if that works for you, I always tell people seek out for a certified accountant, certified person insurance and a license and certified person and insurance businesses, and also to a lawyer. Because I'm not, neither one of three of those three things, so, and I don't pretend to be, so always lead, you know, always reach out and get that legal advice, because at the end of every model, I'm sure that there are pitfalls in every single one of them. So I have a really great legal team, I have a great accounting team, and I really rely on them, and I have a really good group who's doing all our insurances, and I always stay on top of them, like, Hey, Are we all good with insurances? Yeah, because I'm traveling next week, I'm in London, I just want to make sure we're good. Here's the here's the certificate. You're good. You have nothing to worry about. So there's those three, three areas that I cannot give advice, but I do take advice on a daily basis.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:34
All right, all right. Well, thank you so much.

Speaker 2  1:46:37
Alrighty, thanks. You guys. Have a good one.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:41
You too. Thank you, Ted, bye. Man, really bye.
