Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. It's Shane. This is the money Language Academy mentorship portion of the night. It is May 1, 2025 we just had a great explanation of our first success story, and we went through the macro level of how to find a deal all the way to landing the deal. And now we're just going to open up the question the floor to any kind of questions, whether it's credit buying a business, real estate, whatever, any, anything finance, anybody, any questions. No.

Speaker 2  00:43
Nobody. This is so random, but Okay, bring it on. I've been this I've been missing for a few weeks because of school. My school starts. I mean, my school is on Thursday sometimes, but I'll be done in the summer. Anyways, I found a good resource I just wanted to share with you all. And some of you guys probably already have Tesla insurance for your cars, but I'm telling you, I've been like my kids are too loud. I've been a long term Mercury car insurance folder or Yeah, and I've been faithfully paying for Mercury Insurance, but I've been getting shipped and somebody told me to look into Tesla insurance. Now I have a Tesla, but you don't have to even have a Tesla. You just have to download the app and get a quote. I'm saving $1,600 a year switching Mercury Insurance to Tesla, and I'm just like, I'm, I'm like, anybody looking to just save on their monthly expenses, like, I mean, I literally cut mine down, like 120 bucks just switching, I think, or a little bit more than that, switching to Tesla. So check it out.

Speaker 1  01:59
Yeah, that's, that's huge. So any of the online that are online insurance companies, that are using AI are substantially cheaper because they don't have, you know, a bunch of employees. They don't have offices all over the place, all that overhead. So I found the same thing to be true with lemonade. Lemonade, you can get way cheaper car insurance than you can the traditional, you know, brick and mortar places. And then for real estate, going through a broker like goose head, I think we talked about it a couple weeks ago, and then they, yeah, they shop out, you know, all the those insurance companies to find the best deal. It saved me a tremendous amount of money on my rental properties, like some of them were cut, the monthly payment was cut in half. So it's huge and the same the same coverage.

Speaker 2  02:56
I literally took my declaration page and I copied everything, all the coverages, like, everything forever, like, like, completely the same duplicate. And it was just such a huge one. Didn't you mention OB, or something? OB?

Speaker 1  03:12
Oh yeah, ob was one. I don't know. Obi was the only one that I couldn't find. Goose head couldn't beat was OB, O, B, i e, similar, you know, all online insurance company, and they've been really good too, yeah,

Speaker 2  03:31
oh, wait, hold on, let me just write it down, because I didn't. I had, I had to go. Okay, so O, B, i e, and then what's the other one,

Speaker 1  03:40
Goose head. Goose head, yeah, it's, yeah, it's actually a, it's a franchise. And they're, they're insurance brokers, so they would shop it out to a bunch of different places to get the best deal. They get them, you know, deals in bulk. So they'll, they'll go to lemonade and travelers and all these other companies to see what the best deal is going to be. Some Brooke asked the question, are there any health insurance companies doing that? And I, I don't know. I haven't, I don't know of any of them that are, but I would assume, if they aren't, they will, because they're, they're definitely disrupting the insurance industry for everything else. So there might be, I might be a good, a good research topic, because health insurance, but health insurance is so regulated, I don't know if it's possible, but if it is possible, I bet it's coming. Mm, it's

Unknown Speaker  04:47
definitely worth looking into.

Speaker 1  04:49
Oh yeah, yeah. Definitely. Has anyone found a good business this week? Have you got anything

Unknown Speaker  04:59
I continue. Need to look,

Unknown Speaker  05:01
yeah, have you

Speaker 3  05:02
I'm really serious. I'm really serious about jumping into it. Now, none of my time is free from all the business, so going back into the workforce, which you know, frees up me pulling cash out of the business. So I actually been making more money not being in my own business. So it just makes sense for me to, you know, get off into investing into something else.

Speaker 1  05:26
Okay, yeah, yeah. I mean, that's there's, I don't know the numbers. I used to have them written down, but of people who acquire and or start a business while keeping their nine to five job, the success rate is way higher for people doing that than people who jump out of their nine to five job and ride into a business where you have to pull cash from it immediately to support your life. It just, it's the numbers are staggering. As you know it was, I think it was like double the success rate, if you captured I

Unknown Speaker  06:01
did it for eight I did it for eight years.

Speaker 3  06:04
I did it for eight years. I worked full time, and I also ran business that night for eight years, me and my wife. That's a lot of hours, a lot of hours. I did it for eight years, until last year, and I stepped away and focused on the business 1% and then now it's on doing his own thing and bringing in cash. And so I went back into the workforce just to use that money to, you know, live life. Okay, so with that, how have anybody had good experience with Experian,

Unknown Speaker  06:45
like for getting

Speaker 3  06:46
credit cards or but just, you know, making sure your credit reports and knowing what your credit score and thing like that, is it pretty accurate. I know. I know credit qualma is not as accurate. No, I think it's like a 20% drop you have to anticipate. But experience pretty solid company, isn't it? Yeah.

Speaker 1  07:08
I mean, I use both Experian and Credit Karma just to keep track of everything. But you know, when they do a hard inquiry, you know, a lot of times the the number might be a little bit lower than you expect, you know, and that that usually comes from either like, especially with a lender, you know, they might be taking the median score. They might look at all three and take the middle score, you know, or they might average them all together. There. It just depends. Every you know, especially with lenders, they just have different things that they do. Whereas, like credit card companies, they pretty much are going to pull from one, you know, to see, you know, they, they have an agreement where they pay for, I don't know, whatever, what, however many pulls from Experian or Equifax or TransUnion, and they generally stick with those, just one of those. But a bank, when you're going to get a loan or a mortgage,

Unknown Speaker  08:02
generally, they'll, they'll look at all of them.

Speaker 1  08:11
But I like Experian for the boost. It does help, like you can, you can put your rent on there, you know, that might not be getting recorded. You can put your Netflix, whatever it is that you pay, yeah, yeah, they do. It helps, especially money, yeah, yeah, yeah, it helps. I think it's a pretty good platform. Now they will just throw credit card offers at you constantly, and that's kind of annoying, but, but, yeah, I think

Unknown Speaker  08:39
they're even offering loans on there now,

Speaker 1  08:42
oh, yeah, yeah, you can get a mortgage on there, yeah? Oh, absolutely.

Speaker 3  08:46
I was just looking, I was just looking at they saw that it was like $100,000 Oh, okay, do that? Can I share $1,600 a month, yeah, just

Speaker 4  09:06
if you are had some like issues of experience, you can contact the government agency, the CF, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and they can open up a case, basically, and fix your credit if they if experience were not helpful yet, I think, like, lost you against them, you can use this,

Unknown Speaker  09:32
and it should help you to boost your score. Yeah,

Speaker 1  09:35
yeah. There's a lot of credit repair companies. That's what they're one of the first things they're doing is opening up one of those

Unknown Speaker  09:41
cases, yeah, I don't have a credit issue,

Unknown Speaker  09:50
but I know some people that do so

Unknown Speaker  09:53
will be good contacts for them

Unknown Speaker  09:57
if they have if they want to do credit.

Speaker 3  10:00
Everyone, yeah, they want to get their credit repaired, or increase their credit to, you know, probably get it above a certain threshold to buy a home or something like that, you know.

Speaker 1  10:11
I mean, they can, they can join the community. We have an exclusive deal with the accelerator that I don't know if you, you might have came a little bit late, but Joe was talking about nesty. That's, that's the owner of that company. They do credit repair and capital stacking, so, okay, yeah, they, you know, and it's, it's a lot cheaper than it is going to other companies, you know, other companies that take, like, a year sometimes, and draw it out and charge monthly fees. This is just a one time fee.

Unknown Speaker  10:49
Okay, I shared it with her.

Unknown Speaker  10:56
The fee on credit repair, I think, is it's 500

Speaker 1  11:00
a one time fee, and he's he'll see it through all the way to the end, if it takes six months, if it takes three months, if it takes a year, there's no additional fees, you know. And then for capital stacking. So most people, most companies, charge 10% that's kind of the industry standard, 10 or 10.5 the cheapest I've ever seen is 9.5 and I think he's, he's charging eight for people from the community, and then 10 for anybody that's not from the community. I think it's something like that. But it's, it's based on the difficulty that is going to take and how much funding you want,

Unknown Speaker  11:49
but way cheaper

Speaker 1  11:52
companies like true Finco, all those companies are 10% across the board, and they leave your you know, your credit kind of wrecked with a bunch of personal inquiries. He cleans up all those

Unknown Speaker  12:06
and as in a community page,

Speaker 1  12:11
if you as far as if you're looking to do that, I have to reach out to him and let him know that I'll give him like if it's something you're interested in, just, just DM me and I'll, I'll reach out to that company and say, Hey, this person's in the community. They're looking to get credit repair or or whatever, and then you set up a free consult,

Unknown Speaker  12:33
get their reduced rates.

Speaker 1  12:36
We were able to negotiate that because we got power in numbers. That's why the community works many ways, why it works, but that, that's one thing that helps us for sure. All right, I probably answered a bunch of the questions earlier. We had a lot of stuff. We went over. It's been some pretty exciting I know for as far as up upcoming classes, I still want to get to that wholesaling class. If I, if I can get, you know, Eric, nail down. If not, you know, we'll still, we'll figure it out. And the I want to go through the specifics on the financials to show you what to look at when you have those tax returns and the P and l's and you're trying to compare that stuff back and forth. I definitely want to go through that. I'm hoping that I have the purchase agreement signed so I don't have to redact a bunch of the stuff on the current the current one. But if I have to, we'll make it work too.

Unknown Speaker  13:48
Shane, I had a question. Okay, go for it.

Speaker 5  13:53
Go ahead. Robert, okay, yeah. So you, I noticed in your presentation, you were talking about the SOPs, and I was just curious, like, after you purchase the business and you implement your SOPs, what kind of rate of return are you seeing in terms of, like, what you add into the business, in terms of your procedures that you're adding, and is that a consideration in terms of evaluating the business on the front end in terms of, okay, once I go through all my due diligence, I can see if I can add something here or if I can't, and then in terms of that rate of turnout meeting, because I'm curious, I'm sure some businesses there may not be a lot to add, as opposed to others. So I was just curious in terms of your, your experience with that,

Speaker 1  14:46
yeah, so, you know, the the way that I purchase businesses is, I'm looking for for, for solid businesses already, ones that are already like, if they don't change very, very much at all, they're still a good deal. They still cash flow and numbers that make sense, that pay the debt leave plenty of money for, you know, cash flow to to either put back into the business or to put toward the loan, or to pull for, you know, buying other assets, or, you know, for just to support the family. So it has to, it has to be solid on its own first and but I'm always looking for opportunities to grow and to streamline. And if I see a business that's already solid but has a huge potential for growth, it makes it even a better deal, right? Because I'm not looking for one that's not a good deal on its own. That's only good if it grows. But on the on the flip side of that, like so the the current one that I'm getting ready to buy, that part of what makes it a sweet deal, even though it's a very small business, it's, they want 275, for it. It's and it makes, it makes right around 100 that'll be the cash flow, you know, after the debts paid and everything. It's an extra $100,000 but it's really two businesses in one, and I'm only buying one the so it's a 10,000 square foot building. 5000 square foot was just auto repair. The other 5000 was parts shop. They're just liquidating those parts. They're going to sell them to me at a markup for the first year, and then when that's over, that year's up, they're moving out of that side. And there's already car lifts and things that are in place in parts of that area. There's the auto repair shop. Has three of everything. They have redundant lifts and compressors and everything that you need to be able to push into that other area and double that business in a year. So that's not included in the deal. That's just something that that I'm you know, it's included in the deal where I have the first exclusive right to rent that, that other 5000 square feet, and what price it's going to be before anyone else can so even if I choose not to, it's a good business. But if I choose to try to, you know, after that first year, to take the cash flow and grow that other side that takes a business that's, you know, 275 and could potentially turn it into, you know, 505 50 in a year, just like that. And, you know, producing cash flow more along the lines of 200 250,000 so I'm always looking for those opportunities, and especially so when I'm talking about the SOPs, I'm more I'm a lot of times I'm talking about making sure the employees rely on the software that you put in place. So, you know, I want to be able to see what they're doing, as far as, like, what estimates they've done where they're, you know, logging hours. I'll put standard procedures in for like geo fencing and time clocks to where they come in, and just their phone being on premises, clocks them in so someone else can't come in and punch in a number and say, you know, oh, Robert's at work, but Robert's at home asleep. You know, I want to be able to to know when everybody's there, that those kind of procedures, because I want to not have to be there all the time those first two or three weeks. I'm going to be there. I'm going to be there every day, and we're going to be putting those things in place. And I'm going to be, you know, sharing my vision with where things should, should go eventually, but gradual changes. I don't want to rock the boat. I don't want to spook anybody to think that, oh, this is going to be unstable, and they're going to leave. So I just first want to document what's currently happening and make small tweaks and changes to it over time. But just by having that documented is huge, because most of the time you'll find that the owner just did their own thing. They didn't, they didn't have that stuff down. But if you ever go to buy or to sell it later, and you have all that SOP, it's huge. Like, okay, here's how we do everything. Potential buyer, you know, it's just something that every business should have. So it's one of the first things I do. And then if, if I want to put if there's not a good manager, and I'm bringing a manager in, that manager will use those SOPs to know how to carry it forward. You know, if I have to hire someone to replace or whatever, it's just a way to keep things moving when I'm not there. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, definitely. Thanks. Yeah, no problem. Yeah. I

Unknown Speaker  19:44
have another question.

Speaker 6  19:46
Promise, I'm letting everyone have their shot of it anyways. So my question is, so let's say we buy a business and over the course of like a year, we save up $30,000 or whatever. I mean, like. My real question is, like, at what point do we buy a house for ourselves? Like, if I had money saved up 30,000 40,000 instead of actually putting that on a down payment on a house, I would when I go buy a second business instead, or so my question kind of is, like, what's the roadmap to actually buying a house one day?

Speaker 1  20:19
Yeah, well, I mean, it's that's very, very relative and very personal to eat, you know, whatever your if your goal is to buy one business that gives you that you work in, and you get a comfortable life, and you're not beholden to a boss, you know, you're a business owner, and it makes enough cash flow, or that makes you happy and, you know, secure, then that's, that's great. That's perfect. That's what you want to do if you're if your goal is to build and, you know, acquire wealth and acquire semi passive income, or you can quit, you know, your your current job in a few years and not have to worry about anything. That's a good goal. It just depends on what your goals are. So I kind of so my model has been to to stay working at my regular job, to do the to do these acquisitions on the side, and then make them as absentee as I possibly can, to where it frees up my time. But I'm still getting that cash flow. I know that that's not tenable. You know, forever, I can't just keep acquiring business. Eventually I'm going to run out of time, and I have to come up with a different plan, which part of that plan is this community, where maybe I can find people that will partner on deals that are currently, you know, have businesses and they've got some experience, and we can start doing something at a larger scale. So that's been kind of my my model up to this point. But also, there's a video from like three weeks ago. It's called decade to decadence, which kind of outlines a different plan. It's a 10 year plan where, if you want to go from right now, from stage zero, you're trying to capital stack. You're trying to scrounge together, you know, a $35,000 down payment to 10 years from now, you have fu money and and passive income. It lays it completely out how you can do that, how you can take the cash flow from the business. You can scale. You can buy another one. You essentially become a millionaire within five years. And within 10 years, you have an income. I think it's what was it, 50,000 a month, something like, I can't remember what the exact numbers are, but that video right there maps it out with the spreadsheet with numbers, with current business listings, exactly how you could do that if that's your end goal. So you just have to know. You need to, when you start looking for a business and or any kind of investment, you need to know what your goal is and what your exit strategy is. Are you getting in the stock market? Because 20 years from now, you know you want to have dividends and and you want to, you know, fully passive income. Okay, then you you need to buy accordingly. Are you getting? Are you buying a business because you want to just quit your job and be the owner of that business? Okay? Are you buying this business so you can build to the next bigger one, to the next bigger one to the next bigger one? You know? It just depends on what you want. Mm, that's awesome. Thank you. Okay, it was 65,000 a month. Yeah, so, so that plan, Joe started with a business for $350,000 I think it was, you know, so an initial investment of 350 or 35,000 for that down payment. It paid it back that $35,000 and then went all the way through to 10 years later, you have $65,000 of fully passive income where you don't do a damn thing every month if that's your goal. Now me, I would go nuts because I gotta do stuff that's not really my end goal. Like, I feel like I would be less hands on with stuff, but I don't know, I like to stay busy. I love this stuff, so I don't, I don't feel like that was, that's my end goal. I just want to to take over the world at the end. That's it. Like, yeah, like, you know, Austin Powers, the Dr Evil style. That's awesome,

Unknown Speaker  24:30
fantastic. That's my goal, too. Thank you.

Speaker 1  24:36
But yeah, that that video, I think it really maps out. It just shows what's possible. And I think until you see those numbers, and you think about, you know, in 10 years of doing this, where you can get to, whereas people that work 25 years, you know, at a factory or at a even at a really good job, you know, they don't their whole. Hoping to live long enough to see their pension come through and their social social security so they can, you know, have a little fun at the end of their life where you know, you could do that. You can, you can be a millionaire, legitimately in five years.

Unknown Speaker  25:19
Zed the other one was called goose head.

Speaker 1  25:33
Yeah, well, yeah. Where was I 10 years ago? I wish, I wish somebody would have taught me these things. I wish they, they taught this stuff in schools. But, you know, this is not for everybody, right? This is, you know, we talk about a lot of the good things, but at the same time, it's, you know, it can be nerve wracking. You know, it's scary. You're talking about getting a large loan. You're, you're, you're putting yourself out there, you're assuming responsibility for employees. You know, you have an obligation to those employees. Those employees have families. That's not something to take like lightly. You know, you you need to be ready, ready, willing and and able to captain that ship or to learn how to do it, you know. And that's why I say, you know, start fairly small, get get some some wins under your belt, get a base hit, and if you want to scale later, that's great. You might find that you don't like being a business owner until you get in there. And I think everybody in this community is is very capable from just the interactions that we've had, the questions that are asked, the questions that you know people show up, to the lives that are in the community, and the questions that they ask, like everybody is definitely, definitely in the right headspace to do this. It's just whether or not you, you know, you take the action to do it. But it's life changing. It absolutely is.

Unknown Speaker  27:04
I got a question, what's up Brandon, excuse the music.

Unknown Speaker  27:08
But so I've, I've seen a few businesses where

Speaker 7  27:14
the owner only owned it for like, a year or two, and then they're trying to resell it. What do you think about that?

Speaker 1  27:20
Well, it just depends on why they're, you know, are they a flipper? You know, did they buy that? Because people flip businesses. That's, that is also a career path. They they find undervalued, maybe off market, you know, distressed, a lot of the same things that we're looking for, but they're willing to find, you know, to buy one that's currently doesn't have great cash flow, that might be in a little bit of trouble, they inject some cash into there. They they grow that business, they get the numbers up, and then a year later, you know, or a year and a half, or whatever, they they use those new numbers to try to sell that business. So you I don't think that's necessarily a deal breaker, but at the same time, they've already juiced it. How much more can you juice it, if you get into that? And in the on the flip side of that, you know, maybe they bought it a year ago. They thought it was going to be something that it's not, and now they want out. So you just have to look at those financials and vet it and figure out which one of those it actually is.

Speaker 7  28:26
Yeah, yeah, I've seen it twice. I've seen on a laundromat where guy bought it for like, 600,000 and he wants to sell it for 1.2 million,

Speaker 1  28:35
like, a year later. Well, I mean equipment in there, you know, if you got all new machines, and you've got all, you know, technology, and they, they, they rehabbed everything, it might be worth it, though.

Unknown Speaker  28:49
Yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  28:52
they bought it a year ago for 600,000 and they're selling it a year later for 575 Yeah, that's the one that's a little bit, that's, that's, that's sketchy right there, because they're in trouble.

Unknown Speaker  29:06
Okay, so it seems risky to do business flipping away, yeah,

Speaker 1  29:16
yeah, yeah. I mean, definitely. But it's, you know, if they've, if they've worked a lot of the kinks out already. And they're, you know, they've grown that business. And it's, you know, it, if it's cash flowing, what they say it is, and the numbers, the numbers don't lie, right? Those, those tax returns, don't lie. But at the same time, what you're going to see is, you're going to see two years ago really low numbers, and only one year of really good numbers. So that has to be taken into account when you figure out what you're going to offer for it. Because, you know, one year of good financials, it's not enough for me to be comfortable with valuating based off only that one year. You know, that's why we get three years. We want to see the trend. Trend. We want to see where it's been, where it's going. You know, maybe this year is an anomaly. Maybe, you know, every other year has been terrible. You saw a lot of that during covid, you know, 2021 was a great year for a lot of people because of, you know, all the money that was flowing around for PPP and just they were able to grow their business. And then, you know, they would try to list off that one year. And then in 22 and 23 and 24 it started trending down to more normalized numbers. And those were the true gage of it. It wasn't 21 so you just have to get in there and really check it out. And that's why we get more. You know, if you can get five years of financials, it's even better. That's a great question, though. See who is next. Is it I think you were next? Do you have a question?

Speaker 3  30:55
Yeah, we was talking about the quick wins. So starting off, you suggest doing a quick win. Get you a couple of quick wins. What range is that? $100,000 like we had talked about with that payment bid, as I was looking into you think that's a quick win or, oh,

Speaker 1  31:11
like, like, a base hit kind of business? Yeah, no, I think, Well, I think you're in a different situation there, because you have been a business owner for eight years, you know. So you you know, you know a lot more about the bookkeeping. What you know, you know a lot more about processes and advertising and, you know, you name it. Whereas a lot of people in the community have never owned a business, you know, they're coming from the workforce. So that's kind of what I was, I was getting into there, like, you know, I don't think you'd want to go after necessarily a $2 million business as the very first one or, you know, or bigger than that. If you've never, you know, you've never dealt with bookkeeping, you've never dealt with payroll, you never dealt with any of that stuff. Because there's a lot to learn when you first get going. And, yeah, you can watch a lot of videos and and you can learn as much as you can ahead of time. But you know, when you're in there and actually doing it, that's, that's kind of a trial by fire. And I don't know, you know, if I've never swung a baseball bat, I'd much rather get into a slow pitch softball game than, you know, Nolan Ryan throwing 95 mile or fastballs at me, right? You know, maybe you can, you can make it through, but maybe not.

Unknown Speaker  32:39
Ernie, did you have a question,

Speaker 4  32:43
yeah, Shane, you mentioned that when you buy a new business, like, you visit the business, like in person, right? Like first three weeks, what about your existing businesses? Like, how often do you visit? And why do you just manage it? Like, remotely. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  33:01
I try to, I try to, I try to visit whenever possible.

Unknown Speaker  33:06
That's why I keep them close, right? So

Speaker 1  33:10
once a month, at least, like, but zoom calls every week. But, yeah, yeah, I mean, and that's what I was saying about scaling, right? If you, if you keep scaling, at some point those things don't work anymore, you know. So I don't know, I don't know where the future will take it. But, yeah, at least once a month, you know, there are, because I think, I think things will go off track. If I don't care how many cameras you have, I don't care how much you're looking at the software and how much you talk to just the manager. You know, there are other people in that business that have ideas, that have issues, that have problems, that maybe you don't necessarily, those might not get forwarded to you. But when you get an opportunity to walk around, there's a whole management technique called, you know, managing by walking around. That's what it's called. It's like mbwa, I think, and it's, it's taught in, in pretty much every business school, and there's been CEOs that have prided themselves on, I'm going to walk the floor of the factory, or I'm going to walk the floor of, you know, whatever tech firm this is, and regular, you know, I'll talk to, right to the people that are working there. And they found that by doing that, the people that are day to day handling everything can give you great ideas for how to make more money, for how to streamline processes, for things that are going wrong, that you might not know about, and you're not going to get that unless you visit, unless you talk to those people. And you know that's I think it's very important.

Speaker 4  34:44
Thanks. There's gonna be a lot of driving, right? If you buy within 200 miles radius, and if you have multiple,

Speaker 1  34:53
yeah, Saturday is always a travel day for me. Always Saturday. I'm always traveling somewhere, traveling. Here this weekend. It's like, it's not too far, it's 40 miles away. But still, it adds up. You know, it's a lot, but I don't stay there all day, you know. I'll just make an appearance. You know, if it's a if it's something new, I'll stay there for a long time. And if, if not, I'll, you know, I'll just make an appearance. Look around. Oh, everything looks good. See you guys, and then I'm going, but, but, yeah, you know, that's why I'm saying this is this life is not necessarily for everyone. You know you have to be willing to do that, and you don't necessarily have to go there every week or every month. But I don't know. I don't I probably would. I don't think I would feel comfortable if I didn't. I need to know what's going on.

Speaker 8  35:45
Shanene, what do you typically ask on the Zoom calls and like, what do you ask for the managers to have prepared?

Speaker 1  35:53
Well, usually they'll, they'll have something for me. They'll say something like, we have this problem. So I, when I'm when I'm thinking about, like, my role in that is, I, I'm there to solve the big problems that they either don't have the resources to solve or the options to be able to solve them. So something broke, or we really need to hire a new person, or we need to fire someone. Or, you know, those, those bigger things, like, if it's something like, oh, the I don't know the garbage can needs replaced. I don't want to hear that. You know that your manager manage the business, you know, but you know, I just want to know, like, I've, I already know going into it because of the software. Like, I know what the customers like, who's currently there, like, what the hours are like for each of the person that working there, who's showing up, who's not showing like, I have access to all that information already. So it's basically just an open forum, like, how are things do you need me for? Anything? Is something wrong? Is something going well? You know, I try to give goals to all the managers, you know, in the form of, not formal, like KPIs, like you would see in business in general, but like, like, Hey, I would like to see, I'm going to do some more advertising this month. I want to see, you know, where we can get on our numbers, and what kind of capacity that we can handle. And if we get to a point where it's too much, maybe we'll hire someone else, you know, hire an additional person, or whatever, like that. That's the kind of thing that you bring to them. And I'll ask them ahead of time, I'll say something like, if I were to put if I were to double the advertising right now, do you think that you can handle it? You know, I want to know what. I want to know their opinion. They're there every day, you know, because I'm always looking to grow. But at the same time, I don't want to overwhelm anybody. I want them to feel like they can bring up anything to me, whether it's an idea, whether it's a problem. I don't care what it is like it's it should be an open discussion back and forth. It's very informal. We don't, I don't have, like, a set discussion or anything. You know, usually I'll have some things for them. They'll have some things for me. And 1520 minutes, we're done. No problem.

Unknown Speaker  38:29
Anybody else? It's been

Speaker 9  38:34
a good one. I have a couple just like more like closing statements. I guess one thing I would say is don't be discouraged by credit score. I know we talk a lot about credit score. I would involve if you have a business that you're looking at that you really want to get, just start diving in and talk to the SBA loan officers. They're supposed to be not your friend, but your guiding light. They're making money if you're making money. So even if you're, I'm not saying, like, if you have a really, really low credit score, but if you're kind of, like, teeter tottering right on the edge of your credit score, talk to them. Sometimes credit score isn't their highest thing. Like I talked to my and my SBA guy said, No, we want you to have more money in your bank. Because I asked him, should I pay off credit card? Should I, you know? What should I do? And you said, No, keep more money in your bank. And that looks better for us. But each bank is going to be different. Each lender is going to be different, and they'll walk you through it. And the other thing, just when you're looking at businesses, I didn't want to scare anybody about talking about commercial businesses and stuff you happen to have all these years, but use the community as well. I feel like we're always out here to help each other, and we did do that little like, you know, what our experiences and stuff. So feel free to reach out, at least to me. I know my friend could help out with a lot of SBA questions and things like that. I bother them all the time. Or even just like, specific business. Questions of vetting people out and things like that. Shane has a really good information about that.

Unknown Speaker  40:05
But, yeah, you know, use, use the community.

Speaker 1  40:09
Yeah, absolutely, you know, the more, the more we post about these things, the more deals we put out there, the more we, you know, we just get feedback back and forth. The more information it has, and the more it's going to help people in the future and people right now. Because you just never know what somebody, what experience somebody's bringing, you know, you know, I didn't, I didn't realize that you had a background in construction till tonight, you know, like things like that. Somebody, maybe there's a construction company that they specialize in this or that, and they, somebody throws it out there. And you can speak from experience about that business. You know, there's so many possibilities.

Speaker 9  40:48
I'll ask him. I know he has reach. I just don't know how far his reach is with the SBAS and stuff. I'll ask him tomorrow. The other thing is a little bit of a shameless plug for an old commander of mine. But I know a lot of questions are, like, how to talk to employees, or like, hard conversations and things like, if you read wisdom of the bullfrog, it's an old naval seal, Admiral that is the oldest navy seal. And he kind of will talk you through, and it's like a little bit of storytelling, but also, like how that affects, you know, running businesses and like having those hard conversations. He even mentions what Shane just talked about that. He calls it the walk around. So like, you know, you'll never really know the little nitty gritties, unless you talk to the lowest man kind of conversation, you know, if the manager is trying to look good, they, you know, hide some of the other stuff. And it's not fault to them. They're just man be shame or whatever else. But talking to the littlest man, they also have ideas as well. So, yeah, wisdom of the bullfrog was a great one if you're looking to seek for answers, you know, for leadership and things like that. Nice.

Speaker 1  42:13
Okay, everybody. Um, thanks. Thanks for showing up. Thanks for being active in this, this conversation and I will continue. So tomorrow, I will post all this stuff. I will try to, I think the last few times, I did not post the document with the video, so I'm going to, I'm going to also do that and make sure that stuff gets out there and should be available if you want to go back over this stuff, or you want to look through the document for you know, the process and yeah, we'll, we'll get this going. Thank you everybody for showing up. And we will. We'll see you next week at the same time. Otherwise, I'll see you on the interwebs.

Speaker 8  42:55
Thank you everyone. Have a good night. Yeah, you too.

Unknown Speaker  42:59
Thank you guys. Alright.
