Speaker 1  00:03
Hello, everybody. This is the money Language Academy. I'm Shane, and we're going to open up the Q and A mentorship portion of this session. And it is April 10, 2025 so this is the time anybody has any questions about, you want to look at a deal, you want to talk about funding, about real estate, businesses, whatever it is, whatever you got.

Speaker 2  00:28
Shane, I'll bring up a question, just because I see it in the lives a lot, where people are believing that the SBA is, you know, this place that you're going and getting the money from, yeah, and it's not really, you know that way. But then also on the funding side, I have a kind of a question regarding that. So, you know, many people will know you can get this vast majority from the SBA through a certain bank that you're going through. What about that other 10% or 5% or whatever? Can you get that amount of money from that same bank? Because you always, always hear it where you're trying to get funding from capital stacking or these other methods, but I've never heard you mentioned that you can actually maybe, on your own, get the 10% extra or that other 10% right from that same lender,

Speaker 1  01:13
oh, for the down payment. Yeah, no, they're not going to do that. Yeah. Okay, so the technically they don't, so it's not against the law, but they say it's unethical to use debt to fund a down payment for a loan. They want to know where the money's coming from, and they want to know that's been in your bank account for two months. So they're not going to fund a personal loan for a down payment just by their guidelines, they're not going to do that. The only, the only official debt that they will let you use is a heat lock, because they consider that to be, you know, that's your house you own, that everything else you have. That's why you have to season it in the account, you know.

Speaker 2  01:55
So what stops you from going to a city bank? So you open up a business account with them. You get a loan, basically, from them, and then you turn right back around in two months and go try to get an SBA from them, because

Speaker 1  02:09
it's on your personal credit. Yeah, okay, so they they see that you got a loan for however many they so they have your bank statements, so they know how much you have, because you have to furnish them the bank statements, and they also know that you have, by your credit, you know report that you have a fresh personal loan for 20 grand or whatever from this bank. So they know immediately that you you know that's not all your money you owe on this and it affects your personal debt to income, whereas you know with capital stacking, you're getting that money in an LLC name, so you're putting your personal you're getting an inquiry initially, but a good company will actually remove that inquiry too. So you've got that money not tied directly to you, and the debt is not tied directly to you, even though, if you don't pay on it, they're going to come after you, because it's a personal guarantee, but it is outside of your credit report, your personal credit report, so they don't

Speaker 2  03:07
see that. So that's what I meant, though. So so I'm saying you're getting

Unknown Speaker  03:12
basically the credit from, say,

Speaker 2  03:17
Chase, you know, because everyone says, Hey, that's a great one to get it from or whatever. And you're you would still be getting it under your business, LLC or whatever, from them, but turning right back around and trying to get an SBA through them.

Speaker 1  03:31
Oh, no, you, you know, you want to do it at a different, different bank. You don't want to go the same bank. Yeah, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. But because it's all about your credit report, you know, and you can max out your business credit cards, and it doesn't affect your personal credit, right? No, not, not one bit it doesn't report to your personal credit. It doesn't affect it. The only time it affects it is if they come after you for collections for not

Unknown Speaker  03:55
paying you. Yeah.

Speaker 1  04:01
Great question, though, and like you said at the beginning of that, a lot of people think the SBA is loaning them the money. The SBA is not loaning anybody money. The SBA is backing loans for banks. So the bank is loaning you the money. The SBA is guaranteeing 5060, 75 up to 85 up to, I think it's up to 90% of those loans, depending on the loan vehicle, the amount, the risk, all that stuff. So it just makes it easier for the bank. It mitigates their risk to give people money to buy businesses or to grow businesses. But yeah, they're the money is still coming from the bank itself, not the SBA. The only time the SBA shells out money is if you default and the bank wants to get wants their money, that's it.

Speaker 3  04:51
And you said it has to be for the down payment at least two months in the bank account for so for two. Someone that has cash like me, a lot of their money in cash. I probably only have 20% in the bank. Would I just have to start doing some small deposits just to get them in the bank?

Speaker 1  05:08
Yeah, you know, just, just start, start putting it in the bank and let it season in there. Because, and don't put a bunch of money in at once, you know, keep it. You know, they say 10,000 but really, if you could keep it like 2000 a week or something like that, that's ideal, and then it just looks like you did some extra income on the side, or something like that, it wouldn't raise any red flags. But yeah, so when, when you try to get funding through the SBA, an SBA lender doesn't even matter if you're going for real estate or whatever they generally ask for two months of bank statements. And if in two months of bank statements, you have that money, it's been there, then they don't even think about it. They're like, okay, they have the money for the down payment, they saved it, or they earned it, or or whatever. Some, sometimes you might have to, depending on where in the month and the the cycle of of, you know, statements from the bank. You know you might have to go three, but as long as you have those two where it shows you had this money for these months, then you have the down payment. As far as they're concerned, thank you. Yeah, cash is not going to be good, like cash raises so many red flags if you if you try to bring in cash anywhere, it's just the way things are nowadays. Like anything over 10,000 you know they're reporting it. They have to file a report to the IRS. It's a whole thing because they want to make sure it's not illegally gotten. You know, good question. Were there some questions in the chat? Let me see. Okay, here's one from Tory during Q and A, can we look at biz, buy, sell, or new at New York, and seeming funny thing? Sure.

Speaker 2  07:04
Okay, Shane, let me, let me comment on something right quick, on that deposit in cash. I know a little bit about this because I got it to blackjack very seriously and have been banned of a lot of places, started counting and doing all these things. So the the IRS also I will say this, there is a if you're trying to look like you're evading, putting in 10,000 at a time, the bank can, can still, well, they're still obligated to tell the IRS, and these, what they call CSRS, cash transaction records, or CTRs, I'm sorry, cash transaction record, where, even if it looks even if you're saying, Well, I didn't put in 10,000 at a time, the mere fact that you put in slightly like 9999, and then you waited a week, and every time you go in there, you keep doing this, they're still obligated legally to report it. So don't think that you're, you know, getting around anything, do it in those lower amounts over a longer period of time?

Speaker 1  08:07
Yeah, that was in a week. Yeah, that's a pretty safe bet right there, because it looks like a

Speaker 3  08:13
paycheck as well. Yeah. I mean, for me that, I mean, I cashed a lot of checks. And, like my I worked, like, four or five years, I was just cashing checks. So, I mean, I think everything's recorded enough to where, if I was, you know, they could, they could probably see that I cashed those checks. I mean, even if it's four or five years back, and I'm just depositing what I already made. But what if I did these 2020 500 a week? Would that be considered a taxable income, or would they consider that already? Because, I mean, it was taxed already well.

Speaker 1  08:42
So if you can trace the origin to some place that makes sense and you can justify then you won't have to worry about it. But if, if you can't, then yeah, they're going to wonder where that money comes from. You know, money just doesn't pop in your pocket. Yeah, yeah. So, you know, at the end of the day, all the IRS wants is they're cut. They don't really care. But so if you can, if you can show where it came from, and you that you've already paid taxes on it, that's fine, yeah, yeah, but yeah, you have to be careful. You just don't want to raise red flags, even though it's 100% legit, and it shouldn't have to be like this. It's your money. You pay taxes on it. Like, it's a shame, but that's, that's the world we live in. You know, because of money, lot anti, you know, what do they call it? Anti money laundering? Yeah, it's like, AML I get, yeah, AML laws, and in a lot of stuff that was brought around because of crypto and terrorists using crypto to fund terrorism. And I mean, I get it, but it's just made regular people's lives more difficult.

Speaker 2  09:47
So I'll even say this. I had a friend of mine who worked at the IRS. He said, You know, it's better off. You'd have been better off going in there putting in $11,000 than trying to put, you know, 9000 9000 Was a 9000 and it was all hiding something, so you got yourself in trouble for no reason. You know,

Speaker 1  10:09
Tory, we want to look at just New York State, or did you have some did you look at your radius? Because, let's do that, because we talked about that tonight, right? So, where'd it go?

Unknown Speaker  10:26
There it is. So give me a

Unknown Speaker  10:31
a city Tory that you

Speaker 1  10:35
want a 200 mile radius from what city or town, you'll hear Tori. I can't see the comments. So if you're putting it in the when I share my screen, I can't see it.

Unknown Speaker  10:54
Dick seals, D, i, x, Hills is what she said.

Speaker 4  10:57
Or Suffolk County in in New York, okay.

Unknown Speaker  11:00
Suffolk County, yep, S, U, F, F, o, l, K, I

Speaker 1  11:08
don't know if it'll do that. I think it wants a oh, there we go. Okay. Oh no, yeah, just give me, even give me, like a business, like, like, a an address, like, I don't know a street, any street? Do you have a main street there?

Unknown Speaker  11:31
Yeah, like, um, deer park or Dick hills?

Unknown Speaker  11:38
Is that road? Street?

Speaker 5  11:43
That's just like the town, okay, I don't know if it'll pick that

Speaker 1  11:47
up in my I think it's, I don't know if it's smart enough to

Unknown Speaker  11:54
do a whole town.

Unknown Speaker  11:58
Well, we can probably draw it.

Unknown Speaker  12:02
Yeah, so we'll just draw a circle.

Unknown Speaker  12:04
Yeah, that's fine. Anywhere around there is fine.

Speaker 1  12:11
Oh, so, well, yeah, I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  12:22
66 miles.

Speaker 1  12:40
Reus is 32 all right, there we go, 200 miles. So in 200 miles, that's quite a bit. You've got the tip of Maryland, you've got New Hampshire, Vermont, New York. That changes a lot. That really opens up options, right? And I don't know if everybody's been searching like that. So, so let's do that. We'll put New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey. Put at least those in Jersey. I don't know it's not very much in New Hampshire or Vermont, we put Massachusetts in there that that definitely, definitely,

Unknown Speaker  13:43
okay, let's see what we got.

Speaker 1  13:55
That looks pretty good, home care agency, really good cash flow does not include the real estate, but with that kind of cash flow, you could definitely put it in there and make it thrive. Okay, it's been around long enough. Oh, it's under loi probably was a good

Unknown Speaker  14:22
one. Okay? Do you have a price range?

Speaker 1  14:25
Tori, we want 350 right? We definitely know that. But, like, what's is there? Like, 350 to 653? 50 to five? What are you thinking?

Speaker 5  14:38
I would say, like under a million, okay,

Unknown Speaker  14:45
all right, let's see

Speaker 1  14:51
commercial, residential glass. That's not bad. 1981 You get 175,000 in FF and E, which is really good. So that's probably trucks and glass cutters and who knows what else.

Unknown Speaker  15:10
Nine employees.

Speaker 1  15:16
Seller will stay on a train, looking to retire, but will still train and will work part time until a suitable owner placement is found. There you go. That's a good one. I don't know if it's, you know, it's in Massachusetts, so I don't know if Plymouth County is close enough, but that's pretty good at first glance. We can put it in the analyzer if you want to.

Speaker 6  15:40
So I've seen a few glass services. Do you think that's recession resistant, though? Like, for, for that?

Unknown Speaker  15:46
Yeah, definitely. Like, so,

Speaker 1  15:50
like, pre, I think there's a franchise called premier glass or something like that. Like, they if a window breaks, you're calling one of those now, this says commercial and residential, so if somebody's building something new or whatever, but let's see what they do. So they do shower doors. It says SBA, Financeable, okay? Glass doors, windows, auto glass, window and screen repairs, bathroom, shower doors. So new construction, which in the next 10 years, because there's such a housing shortage, I don't see, even with prices going up, I don't see new construction slowing down. I really don't. I know in Missouri that they change, recently changed the laws to where, if you have a crack anywhere in your windshield that could be in the line of sight, you have to replace that whole stupid windshield. Yeah, I think so. I think, you know, it's, it's service industry. It's not like you're catering to luxury or anything like that. I mean, and it's been around since 1981 1981 has seen multiple stock market crashes. It's seen, you name it, and it's still here, still producing. So commercial glass is 20% residential, 60 auto glass. So they don't do much auto glass, but you know, little Timmy throws a baseball through the window. You call this business? Yeah, that's a good we can find another one. But I think that is a good one. That was just

Speaker 6  17:21
no, yes, yeah, you can definitely put it through to just see,

Speaker 1  17:25
oh, you want me to put it in the analyzer? Yes, you want, yeah, okay. So for the people that are newer, I think you saw me use the

Unknown Speaker  17:37
analyzer during

Speaker 1  17:41
the wrong one. That was the one I changed around during the class. But so the way that this works is, you go, you hit the summary, and this is in the community documents. Hopefully everybody has seen those documents. There's a whole bunch of good stuff in there. You know, that should be the first place you start, just like looking over that information and then start to go through the videos of the previous classes. But so the the ones in yellow are the ones that you can change. Okay, you shouldn't touch any of the other ones. They're they're actually auto loaded for you. So let's look at this. So asking price, 685,002

Unknown Speaker  18:24
cash flow is 300

Speaker 1  18:30
so anything that's that's less than three here is good. That's what we're looking for. Gross revenue is 1.9 million.

Unknown Speaker  18:46
FF and E had a bunch in it, 175

Speaker 1  18:50
so if anybody that's new here FF and E is furniture, fixtures and equipment. So that's anything that you know. Truck, tools, not inventory, though, inventory is different. Inventory would be if they had panes of glass in a warehouse. That's different. But glass cutters, tools, trucks, I don't know, forklifts, whatever it is that they have that's FF and E. So this section right here, your 5% we always include 5% working capital, just in case. That's going to give you enough to pay your employees the first month, maybe the second month, depending, you know, however long it takes to get revenue coming in, so you can handle your own expenses. And then here's the down payment. So this is 10% because it's over 350,000 the SBA will require 10% and then here's your kind of breakdown of the loan and what it would be so your DSCR, which is the debt service coverage ratio, which is what all lenders look at, that's going to be one of the first things that they try to figure when they see your numbers. Anything over a one. Point two five is good. When you get over the twos and you get double the 1.25 it's really good. Lenders love that. So you're gonna it's gonna cost you $107,000 a year, but it produces 300,000 so your cash flow is 192 per year from an initial investment of 68,000 or did this say anything about potential financing you may be able to, because they're going to have a big, hefty amount of capital gains to pay if they're the original owner. Oh, seller is open to some financing. There you go. So some financing might be half of that down payment. So you can bring 3040, grand and have 100 we say, $192,000

Unknown Speaker  20:53
of cash flow per year. So this is a good one. Tori. I like this one.

Unknown Speaker  21:00
Thank you. I'll definitely look more into it. And, yeah,

Speaker 1  21:04
thank you. How close it is to you, but, but you know, when you widen out to the 200 mile radius, as opposed to just staying in your state, it really opens up a lot of doors. Yeah, I think a lot of people haven't we've said the 200 miles, but we've always looked in on the lives and stuff at specific states. So think that might help you, you know, widen your search and find more stuff

Speaker 7  21:29
cool, that that that is, like, the biggest thing I'm taking from tonight, by the way, the 200 mile radius thing. I didn't realize that, or I just missed it. I don't sorry I don't tune into the lies on the tick tock very often.

Unknown Speaker  21:43
That hurts me. Dan,

Speaker 7  21:46
that was huge for me today. So great. Thanks.

Speaker 1  21:50
Okay, yeah, cool. And you know, so I think they say 200 miles and or three hours, something like that, but I just keep it to 200 miles, because how do they know how long it takes, but I don't know that just seems dumb, but it's in their guidelines, the SBA so you're safe if you're within 200 miles. If you find one that's really good and you want to move closer to it, they will allow you to do that too, but they're not going to finance one 1000 miles away, unless you're willing to move. They just won't you.

Unknown Speaker  22:27
Okay, let's see,

Unknown Speaker  22:31
Jean, are you

Unknown Speaker  22:36
going Q, Q, I do actually have a question.

Unknown Speaker  22:39
Okay, real quick,

Speaker 7  22:41
because I've been just trying to find like the mom paw type businesses so far, but I see a lot of branded gas stations or franchises. Yeah. I mean, are you? Doesn't sound like you're necessarily opposed to, like, a franchise.

Speaker 1  23:02
I'm not opposed to a franchise, but you're going to get, you're going to get restrictions on the franchise to make it difficult to be an absentee owner. That's going to be your one of your main hurdles. They also have. They want to know that you have a certain amount of net worth. So they're going to say something like, you have to have a quarter million dollars net worth, or $500,000 depending on, you know, every franchise is different. So there's that stuff. You sign a pretty hardcore contract of how much money you're going to pay them every month, you know, you but, but on the on the flip side, so I think it's if you're wanting to start something from scratch. I think a franchise helps. I think it's good because you get the systems, you get the training, you get the suppliers, you get the marketing, you get all the stuff that's a struggle when you try to create something from scratch. But if it's an already established franchise, it really cuts out on the advantage of it, because just like buying an established business, all those things are in place, the marketing, the training, the employees, the the supplier, like the bookkeeping, all that's already there. So what after it's already up and going, what is the franchise or actually doing for you? Other than marketing, they're really not providing that much, but they're taking money from you every month. So I'm not saying it's I don't. I'm not opposed to it. And as far as a gas station goes, a branded gas station, same thing. It's just, it's all and I kind of went back and forth with somebody on the live the other day, because the the gas stations don't make much money on gas. They really don't. The model for, like, I don't know if you guys have buckies. You know what buckies is, where they've got, like, 40 pumps, right? Buckies is not making money on gas. Buckies is making money on pecan logs and stupid hats and all that kind of stuff. Where you go inside and you. Buy food and you buy expensive sodas and you buy liquor and tobacco and all that like that's where those, those stations and convenience stores are making money. You know, the days of a little, tiny place that just sells gas and runs out there and pumps it for you when, when gas had high margins, those are, those are gone.

Speaker 2  25:20
My mom had a friend who they had a gas station. And same thing, what you're saying, they only made money from putting a simple Simons inside the gas station, and then they bought another one. That was kind of a unique situation where they kind of had a monopoly, because there was a lake type, resort type area, and that basically the only place to go to get anything to eat was around there. So they made the money on that. On the whole like, what you're saying, all the other things around it, I will say this too, kind of what Dan's talking about. I know all of us have been looking at those. You know, Home Services, recession type proof type things, or recession resistant type

Speaker 1  26:00
business is even more important right now than it has been the last five years, for sure.

Speaker 2  26:06
But I think I'm biz by sale that you got a lot of deceptive ads in there with respect to, oh, the company's been around for all these years. You know, here's the cash flow to the to the offering, the asking price seems like astronomical, seems great, and everything else. But then when you reach out to them, it's always the same thing. Always the same thing, like what you're talking about before. It's like, oh, the broker is trying to sell you on all these other things, but you find out none of these are actually established in that area. It's like, you're they're trying. They're using the the deceptive. And I should say there's a lie. You may have been in business this amount of time somewhere else, but it's nowhere close to you, and they're trying to use you as the means to get in that market and grow it. But like, what you said, what I found too. I've listened to some of their presentations. It's just, yeah, we'll get you up and running and like, like what you're saying, I think it's probably good in the beginning, but then you're gonna have to work. Now, some of them will say, you know, you almost have to hire a GM because you're not licensed in whatever it is, like HVAC or whatever, and that would they will let you do semi absentee. But, you know, and I've seen some of those little spills, but almost all those ones that are, at least in my area, have been just, you know, real. It's shady. They're not, they're not what they profess to be. And it seems too good to be true. It probably is. Is the, is the mode I take from it, because all of my talk to have been the same thing.

Speaker 1  27:34
Yeah, they think that if they can lure you in and then give you a good sales pitch, that you'll follow through. It's like, so there's, I fell prey to this at the beginning. When I was doing real estate, I saw I was on on marketplace, and I was looking for, you know, multifamily. I was like, okay, and Sedalia, Missouri, was this multifamily. This is a, this is a decent sized city. It's where the State Fair is. There's a large university like, and I'm like, Okay, this is great. The cash flow is amazing. On this, I reached out to the guy. He's a he's a wholesaler and an agent and like, all this stuff. And he's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. He sent me some particulars about it, and this and that. And then he he sent me a text saying, oh, you know, I'm sorry. The now, the owner says he doesn't want to sell it anymore. He's, he's, he's actually giving it to his son, or something like that. I was like, well, that's weird, but he's, like, I had these other ones. You want to look at these other ones, which were turds. They were all terrible. And that four Plex is still listed four years later, the very same one, the same listing, he's just recycled it and recycled it, recycled it because it was never for sale, never. He just used that to lure people in, in order to give them a pitch on these other ones that are not good deals.

Unknown Speaker  28:54
So I say on the franchise themselves, they try to do a lot of,

Speaker 2  28:58
a lot of, you know, the next steps, you know, we'll have you talk to this person. Then it's somebody else, it's somebody else, it's somebody else. So they're trying to get you basically to in sales. It's called continuous agreement. You just keep on going through something until somebody objects, and then they try to sell you at that point. But that's what I've seen with a lot of them. It's like, hey, let's, let's keep setting you up with some other person higher up in the chain to make it feel like, okay, well, you know, I'm, I'm really going through with this, but I've worked in sales, I know what they're doing. And I was like, okay, exactly, exactly

Speaker 1  29:35
once he gave me those other ones. I'm like, wait a minute. Something's not right here. So, but, yeah, it's still listed, so I could see them doing the same thing with the business. You know, it's a tried and true sales technique that will get people, yeah, I'm starting

Speaker 3  29:51
to think that might have happened. Sorry, I think I was gonna say I think that might have happened to me today, because I think you were talking about property management. Firms. The other day, Shane and I actually reached out to somebody about it, and instantly he gave me no information about the firm that I messaged about. But this was today, he immediately jumped to, I have these other firms, and two of them are franchises, and he was talking to me about the benefits of franchising, and they weren't. There was no established franchise, and I think that that's what might have happened. But, and the listing seemed pretty good, so I'm sure they'd like, they wanted to keep it up.

Speaker 1  30:29
Yeah, probably there. It doesn't cost them anything to keep things on business by sales like the MLS, you know. So they'll, yeah, brokers are shady. There's, they really are. I mean, they're maximizing their money, just like anybody else is. And you just just got to know where you get trust no one, or at least trust and verify. You know, if they tell you something, check it out. If they put numbers on the listing, check it against the tax returns. And then, because you there's so many techniques. They'll take the average of the last five years and they'll put those numbers there, because in 2020 and 2021, it was huge. And then when PPP was gone, everything started tanking and starts trending down. And they don't want to give you last year's numbers, they want to give you the average, and they act like they're doing you a favor by averaging it, because that gives you a better representation. The numbers not true. So there's so many things that you have to go through just to, you know, you have to verify every single dime, everything that they say, and that's part of the due diligence, you know. But you're not committed to anything until you sign a purchase agreement with funding and all that stuff later on. But that's, you know, that's 60 days down the road, 30 days down the road after you've gone through all these checks to make sure that you're safe, that what they're saying is right, that the financials they've given you are correct. But it's a process. And, you know, trust don't trust them. Don't trust a broker. All they did was go through you. Most of them are real estate brokers. So they were a real estate agent for a couple years. They might not even been successful, and then they took their broker test, and now they're a broker so and now they sell businesses. But that doesn't mean that they're telling you the truth, not at all. I was

Speaker 8  32:15
just going to add something about the franchises too. I work for a marketing company that specializes in helping small businesses and franchises don't really do a whole lot of marketing for them. They do, you know, national marketing, like, if you think about Starbucks like, they'll have Starbucks marketing, but they don't really help specific individual locations that much, so they still have to market themselves. And then there's a lot of rules around how they do that as well, yeah.

Speaker 1  32:43
And they'll say individual stores may vary, you know, for different sales and stuff, but sometimes they'll have a national campaign, and they'll say, you know, every Tuesday, a latte is 75 cents, but, and you have to conform to that if you're hurting and you need that, that extra money, you know, I don't know. I just, what I love about being a business owner is I can do what I want to do, and nobody has to answer for it, except for me, you know, and and, you know, when I have to pay my bills at the end of the month. So I can try things, I can experiment. I can take risks, or I can be very conservative, but it's all on me. But I don't have like, if there was a good franchise opportunity, I would be fine with it. I'm not like, I I love Scooter's coffee, and I love what they do. They have a little bitty place. There's not a lot of footprint. Then it's always packed. Like, if I found a place that didn't have a Scooter's coffee that had a good location, I would consider it. I probably wouldn't do it because it kind of violates my no food and no you know, but I would consider it. I like when you get a coffee and they say, well, scoot on around. I like that. I

Unknown Speaker  34:03
Yeah, that's a great point, though. Yeah, great

Speaker 7  34:05
say, like, I'm not interested necessarily. I know whatever, but I'm trying to avoid a franchise, if at all possible. And there, there's something else, but it's late here, so my mind went like, I'm going to shut up now.

Unknown Speaker  34:21
But I think this is great. So thanks.

Unknown Speaker  34:24
Yeah, yeah, no problem.

Speaker 2  34:26
So Shane, somebody asked about pharmacies and staffing recruitment agencies, and what's your take on that? I would say that I was looking at a staffing one in Houston. Bring that up and see what you think about this, what, what's in?

Unknown Speaker  34:42
It's Houston, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  34:47
am I still sharing my screen? Yeah? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  35:11
Um, let's see, does it say staffing in the I'm

Speaker 2  35:14
not certain. I just, I just saw somebody mentioned that in the chat, and I had been looking at one a few days ago, because I used to live down there.

Unknown Speaker  35:23
Yeah, that's it. That's it.

Unknown Speaker  35:25
Okay. No, I do like staffing.

Speaker 1  35:30
I don't, I don't currently own one, but I feel like that it's a good business, mainly just because, I mean, like, it's, I know how difficult it is to staff the businesses that I currently have. I don't use staffing, but, like, I would not be opposed to it. Like I've considered it a few times, like, we need to get some people, people don't want to work. It's very it's very hard to find good employees. And if I could farm that out to a firm that would do it for me. I would, I would totally be fine with that. I think, I think some of that stuff might be taken by vas. Some of that more meat, you know, like repetitive tasks, you know, with a, if you don't know what a VA is, it's a virtual assistant that might be in Malaysia or Singapore or India, or something like that. That does, you know, bookkeeping, answer phones like, you know, anytime you call Google, you call anybody that's a VA, right, or a big firm of vas, but no, I think it's a good model. I like it. I actually reached out to before we started recording. I was telling everybody that I reached out to and a staffing agency that I was gonna it was in my hometown, actually, and they said that it was a franchise, and I didn't realize it was and they don't allow owner they don't allow absentee owners. Whoever is the franchisee has to be there day to day. So it was not gonna work for me. But, yeah, I think it's good now. Brooke also asked about pharmacy. Now compound pharmacies, I'm not sure about that. Compound pharmacy seem to follow their own rules and do whatever they want to do. You know, that's the whole thing with like, weight loss, shots and stuff, right? So, so there's a shortage, a compounding pharmacy says, Okay, we're gonna mix it up ourselves and sell it because there's a shortage. Or the traditional compounding pharmacy was where, say, I need a certain kind of medication to to, you know, to sustain me, but I'm allergic to a key ingredient in the big, mainstream medication, so compounding pharmacy will take that active ingredient from that medication and put it with a different base that I'm not allergic to, and then sell it to me. Okay, so that's what compounding pharmacies are supposed to do. So I think it's great. And I think the way they're using it that, I think they're making probably billions of dollars right now on Z bound, and what is it, ozempic and all those ones that are the weight loss things like, that's a huge, huge industry. It's highly regulated.

Speaker 2  38:20
I think they're changing the law on it, though, because that, you know, at one time there was, you know, emergency, you know, and they couldn't supply enough. Now, I think they've come out and said, hey, there is no emergency on anymore, and you're gonna have to go back to the actual original manufacturer, like ozempic itself, and you can't get these kind of

Speaker 1  38:41
1000s of dollars a month. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Probably because, you know, they have patents on everything. You put billions and billions of dollars into producing that stuff. And they, you know, it's really that should be their money. No, I think it was starting people too much money, don't get me wrong. But, and so. So Brooke, as far as like anything that is pharmacy and medical related, there are very few states that will allow you to own those businesses without it, to be a majority owner, without a medical license of some sort. Now, you might be able to be a nurse and be okay, but nine times out of 10. You're gonna have to be a pharmacist. So my dream business, I've said multiple times, is an accounting firm. Even in in Missouri, I can't be a majority owner in an accounting firm. I can be a 49% owner, but a CPA has to be a 51% so I'm still actively looking for one, but you're going to find that medical situations are the same thing, pharmacies, clinics, dentists, you know, optometrists, all that they want the government, not necessarily the SBA or lenders or anything like that. Or customers want somebody that's a professional. In that field, because they're highly regulated, and you're dealing with insurance companies and all that stuff. It's, it's, it's hard to find something like that you can invest in. So usually, if I see a clinic or anything like that, I don't even, I don't even go forward with it, because every time I've tried, I run into a regulation hurdle. So I just kind of gave up on that pursuit. Yeah, there you go. Yeah. So you have to be a pharmacist to own it, yeah, yeah. As far as I was in pick and all that stuff, like, I read a thing the other day that said that they're they have a pill form coming out too. That's going to be much, much cheaper. We'll see. We'll see. But I know I I made the mistake clicking on one of those things on Instagram, and now my feed and Instagram is nothing but those ads. I mean nothing but those ads. And I don't get on Instagram very often. I usually say on tick tock. But ridiculous. Great question, though, I would love to have anything in the medical field. No, I think so patience. Patience is a an RN and has a business for medical transport. I think you could do something like that, you know, because that's not necessarily as regulated. Brooke, you're a nurse too. Okay, there you go. So you might be able to, I don't know, you'd have to look at the regulation in your state,

Speaker 9  41:33
but the government is jumping into everything, yeah, when starving started a few years ago, there wasn't much regulation. But just last year in Illinois, they have, like, come up with so much tight regulation. It's not as though the regulation will stop you from coming in, but it kind of follow you and follow the money like every coin, every you know, it's just, I have a friend who is into staffing right now. I just feel like the medical field is so vast that if you want to do something, it's a whole pool out there of so many things you just have to, like, get a hang on. One thing I recently met, met a mentor in a business conference, and when, while we're struggling to make my business work, I met this lady you can look at, she's Tricia Bailey. She's went from having, from being an employee a big time name to losing everything in one day, employee audition her, and then she went into business after suffering some medical setback as a person, medical issues. So she went into business. And today she's a billionaire, so I feel like her mother is pretty good. Like, you know anything in the medical field. If you want to do something like I'm already one thing, I can spread that one thing, but I have to get a hang on what I'm doing first and understand how the other opportunities come and feed off of that one thing that I'm doing. So I've been the type that's going all around, if anybody's listening, if you want to go into the medical field, I will say there's so many things in there that you'll be so distracted. Oh, I want to do this. Oh, now I want to do this. So if you get a hang on one thing, which I'm trying to do right now, then from that one thing, I can get an inside feeling of who in this community wants more than this thing, and then I can sell more of the other things that the other people need. Yeah. So staffing is great, but it is so saturated and so unique business. If you take a look at it, I mean, it's it's looking great. The cash flow is there, but I don't think the profit margin is really there? Okay, yeah,

Speaker 2  44:05
I don't know. I was, uh, most of my time in the military was recruiting. I did 18 years of recruiting there. Of the 25 I was in first. It's kind of like, hey, you know, just like the most people know about the high school or junior college recruiter or whatever, but then your career progress. And in 1998 I started recruiting health professions out of Kansas City. You had shortages in 1998 and it is 2025 and there's still some shortages. So it is not going anywhere. They cut the country continues to age, and that's one of those things too. Like AI is not going to replace healthcare to the degree, because even if it's something that's possible,

Unknown Speaker  44:51
human beings, I don't think are going to be

Speaker 2  44:54
I think there'd be risk averse saying I'm going to let a computer or machine operate on me, or. To our

Speaker 1  45:00
camera, especially someone aging, you know, a baby, yeah?

Unknown Speaker  45:03
You don't trust it, yeah.

Speaker 1  45:08
And you know that that generation is so huge that it's pushing us in in that direction. Just, I mean, just like our model here, everybody is your ideal business owner that you're buying a business from is a baby boomer. You know, you're looking for that person retiring that's been 30 weeks.

Speaker 2  45:27
Even say that stuff about, you know, what's, you know, with gaming, because I'm, I was heavily involved with that. You know, they think, oh, you know, the millennials and younger groups, they don't, they don't, well, they will more readily adopt I gaming and things like that. However, they found, like, that's not really all the way true, because you've grown up with these things that are electronic and you don't trust it because, you know, it's something that can be manipulated and built in and whatever. And all these games are rigged mathematically just but for some reason, you know, in the counter, it was like, who's winning the World Series of Poker? It's the younger crowd. And if it was really all about just gaming online, you wouldn't see this, people doing it in real time in brick and mortar casinos. So to your point, I don't even think people when they when they're when they're in a dire Strait and they're really needing care. I still don't even think the age is going to matter what generation they're in. I still don't think they're going to trust somebody who's not a human speaking with them and caring for them.

Speaker 9  46:30
Yeah, yeah. I hope I did not say something negative. Staffing is there's a shortage. The shortage has not even started because I think I don't have the numbers in front of me, but the estimates of doctors that are retiring, the baby boomers, the section that is doctors, nurses, wants to retire, just like you see the baby boomers bringing in all of this massive job opportunities for medical field, as far as to equipment and everything goes is the same thing that the staffing industry is going to face. But the thing with staffing is, if you hire somebody to go do something, your profit margin is definitely by gaining that little tip that's on top of what you're going to pay them. So because I have actually been to a training where a lady was smart about it, I think what she employed was being smart about treating the workers well and making them work longer hours and then getting a much more better return. So you have to, like, know the trade to be able to capitalize on that. But if you go in blindly and you want to make the cow, then you are definitely not going to be making a lot of money, because it's like just taking the money from the establishment and giving it to the staff who's going to go to the job. But if you get smart about it, like treating your workers well, like really being there for them, then people work their heart out for you, and then you can you make your profits.

Speaker 1  48:19
And I think there's a couple of different models too. So you have staffing agencies that are more like temp agencies, where so the company that needs to hire people is paying them a certain amount for each employee per hour and so and then there's an arbitrage there. So say they get $20 per hour for employee, and they pay the employee 15 so they get that $5 there's another model where it's, it's more of a recruitment model. So, so you're bringing in good people with talent, and you're gonna place those people into companies, and the company itself will pay you, just in addition to whatever you're not beholden to that hourly rate or whatever they say, Okay, if you bring me a good, qualified person, I hire them, you get this much money. Yeah. So it's

Speaker 2  49:08
yes, I work. I work inside every corporate office. So I'm always trying to say we need to use technology and get better and wean ourselves off of paying these third party staffing firms and but they make a lot of money because you're usually getting you're usually trying to find niche personnel. And they're at a they have to have these people. So like to patient's point, even though we may be saying all these people are going to retire, we're not getting rid of H, 1b visas. For that very reason. You're going to have people come from other places, because you have to be able to sustain your life. At the end of the day, you can amass all the wealth you want to. But in the end, the most valuable thing is your life. But they will pay up to 30% of whatever that person's salary is right now, once, once they sign the document. So if I'm you know, just for. Or just for math sake, you hire somebody for 100,000 they're paying you 30,000 for that one person you know. And on the staffing piece, when you say, hey, you know, we're really not sure we want to try these people out. And before we want to fully commit to an employee on the maybe the hourly wage or whatever, if you try to, if they like the person, and they say, oh, you know, we want to, we want to hire them as a full time member. They're now having to pay a penalty back to the staffing firm for for hiring them sooner, because the staffing firm isn't going to get that for the six month thing. So they're still, no matter how you slice it and dice it, they're still making money off of that person.

Speaker 1  50:40
Yeah, and I think that's a great so I get, I get recruiters all the time as an engineer, like, constantly, like, especially on LinkedIn, that that's all I get every day, all day. I just, I just ignore them at this point, because I don't want to go anywhere. But, like, there's, there's a reason why there are so many recruiters that, you know, there's money in that for sure, because it's hard to find. On the other end, if you need to find somebody with expertise, with knowledge, with skills, it's tough. It's tough to find it. So, yeah, I think, I think, I think, personally, I think staffing, I think there's a future in it. I think not necessarily medical, but just in general staffing and temp agencies. And also, I think that, you know, recruiters, either model, I think in the near future, yeah, I think it's definitely a future. I would actually like to get a temp agency

Unknown Speaker  51:35
more locally.

Speaker 1  51:38
Then the one I was looking at was, like 150 miles away. That was a little, you know, so I like to have something closer, but that wasn't within my range. But I was really bummed, because I was like, Okay, that was gonna be my next one.

Speaker 2  51:50
And because it's all numbers based, it's like, Hey, you you know you can't, yeah, you know, it's, it's, they're either showing up to work or they're not when in terms of what you're doing and trying to prospect and find the people and all that. So it's easy to track, easy to tell when somebody's not doing something too.

Unknown Speaker  52:05
Yeah, that seems like it's right in my wheelhouse.

Speaker 9  52:08
Well, the challenges the staffing agencies are facing right now is the competition and be a staffing company and not having workers to work for you. Like people were always sending me, like, I get anywhere from five to 10 calls a day. Hey, do you want to sign it? I'm like, No, thank you. I don't want to work on nobody. I just want to do my own little thing. I don't want to work for nobody. So I think if anybody here goes into staffing, definitely looking to international recruitment. I know, when I was having some training 2023 into 24 the lady was telling us how, like, you know, there's some bills that's been passed in the Senate right now, like they looking like 10 years from now, because the shortage is not even anywhere near where we're anticipating right now, when those baby boomers actually start stepping aside, those who are doctors, they're actually scared right now of the amount of doctors that got that are going to be retiring. So like, America is already making plans for 10 years from now, like looking into recruiting from international you know, but I just feel like, let me, let me stay put with one thing. I have a friend who's doing it right now, and she got into the business before all of the more serious regulation, still a great place to be. Just be aware that you know, people who are selling, they're selling for a reasoning. You want to look out for whatever reason they're selling, something is hurting them. That's why they're selling. If they're selling, then there's something wrong, because most of those businesses don't sell at

Speaker 1  53:53
this point. Well, I mean, unless they're retiring, or, you know, yeah, maybe retiring, definitely, just like any business, once you find out, and you know this might not be true, you know, you got, you have to vet that, just like you vet every other potential fact or stat in this listing, like, you know, if you get there and it's somebody that's 35 and they're talking about they're going to retire, probably not true. I mean, it could be, you know, maybe they've done really well for themselves. But, yeah, you have to bet that too. Yeah, okay. Um, this was good. Um, anybody have any other questions?

Unknown Speaker  54:34
Well, I'm definitely going Q. Q,

Speaker 4  54:39
yes, I did the replit that we talked about the other night. Is there a YouTube that I can look at?

Speaker 1  54:49
No, I not that I know of. Um, so are you? Are you struggling with rep for the people that weren't here? Replit, R, E, P, L, i, t, is an AI tool. Tool that allows you to create apps and websites through their agent, where you can just, you can tell it, hey, create a website that does this. Create an app that does this. Blah, blah, blah. So what? What are you trying to create?

Speaker 4  55:15
I'm trying to create the the Google. These tend to pop up first the directory thing, yeah, the directory, okay, there's no real need for that in my area, okay, and a guy that's already doing it is making $500 a pop per month off people at a being a rapid referral, okay, so I can stack up some cash pretty quick. Yeah.

Speaker 1  55:48
I mean, that's, uh, that's pretty good. Let me see that's replet right there. So this is how, this is what the replet tool looks like. And so this whole thing got started, right? So I have a landscaping business. Is one of the, you know, businesses that I own, and I've been dealing with Google ads. And, you know, Google ads are very expensive. It's like, like, in order to get at the top of a list, even in my area, which is not really saturated. So for landscaping, I pay like 60 to 80 bucks a day to get to be the top of the list when they say lawn mowing services near me, or whatever, that's what it costs to be that first one. So I was trying to come up with a way that I could create a directory and then optimize the SEO. So it'd be almost like a because what you see when you do that that search is you see like Angie's List, or you'll see thumbtack those different home services directories that they put a lot of effort into their SEO, and they get at the top of that list, and then people recognize that name, they click on it, and they say, okay, who's the top ranked or whatever, and then they go from there. So I thought it would be a good, easy way to get some free advertising, by creating a website that was a directory website that would put my business at the top, okay? And I came across this AI tool because I didn't want to have to do it myself. And that's, that's what Gina's talking about here. So I think this is such a there's such potential here to make money. It's, it's huge. It's, it's called replit, R, E, P, L, i, t, and it's free until you get to so many requests to the agent. This was what I was trying to look at see if I could find my original prompts, Gina and I know, so it only goes back so far after I'd already changed the image. So I know my original prompt was something like,

Unknown Speaker  58:02
you know, create

Speaker 1  58:05
a, I don't know, landscaping directory in this area, whatever city that uses Google Places to list all of the whatever type of business, and this in within 10 mile radius or within that city, and then put this particular business at the top. That was like how I started. Now you have to go to Google, and you have to get an API key from Google for Google Places, but that's free. But is that the struggle? Have you gotten past that point? Or where are you at in this

Unknown Speaker  58:43
I looked at it and I didn't start because I wanted and got it.

Speaker 1  58:47
Okay, okay, so that would, that's your first.

Speaker 4  58:51
I didn't know if I needed like their website, you know, and I already have everything pre plugged

Speaker 1  58:57
or no, you it should be able to pull all of that information for you by that's what Google Places does. So you have Google business profiles, Google Places. So, so it's kind of Google Places and Google Maps are integrated together. So like when you search for whatever it is, I don't know, you search for plumbers near near me, it'll, what Google is doing is it's, it's going to first check the register Google business profiles, and it's going to load those So, and that's, and that's off of the Google Places, which is in whatever city you're in. So that's like, your first step. So if you just, if you say something like create a business directory, website that uses Google Places to list every whatever. So I don't know, what were you trying to do? What was your first one? Electricians, okay, that. List every Electrician Business in this city, but puts this, whatever name of the business at the top. Okay, but you need to, you have to tell it, use Google Places. And so what it should do is it should prompt you for the API key. And if you don't have that, you can just look that up on YouTube. It'll show you exactly how do I get an API key for Google Places, super easy, completely free. And you you do that, and you copy it in, and it should, once you get a good base, the agent should walk you through every step, and then at the end of it, you've got a good website. But awesome, but yeah, like, you definitely want to use Google Places, because you want it to change as new businesses are added or removed, or whatever, but yours is the one that you're trying to promote is still at the top. And maybe, maybe, I know it's kind of off subject for the community, but, you know, I'm getting ready, I'm going to have a fence company come out and fence our new our new place, and that's going to be very expensive. So I'm going to offer this particular person. I've known him for a while, and he's always asking me to do a website. I'm going to offer to do this kind of website for him to see if he'll give me half off of that fence, because we're talking like 15, $20,000 fence, and I don't want to pay for it so, and he doesn't want to pay for somebody to create a professional website to do this for him. So he could probably say we'll both save money at the end of the day, but it should only take me about an hour. And if I can, if I can get him to agree to that, I'll try to create a video on it, and I'll put in the community so it might help you. Yeah, because I really think you can make 500 or $1,000 off of this easily, easily per website and spend about an hour.

Speaker 4  1:01:56
Yeah, and this guy's getting 500 every month,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:01
people. Oh, and He's maintaining it for them. Yes, He's

Unknown Speaker  1:02:04
maintaining it. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:02:06
yeah, that guy, that guy's doing pretty well for for doing barely, no, basically,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:10
nothing, exactly,

Speaker 10  1:02:14
Yep, definitely. I share the resource. I'm sure. Shane, you know the about the Udemy looks like there are, like 40 courses related to replied, nice. Take a look at it, and I just sorted by the 4.5 stars. It's cheap. It's like $14 but you can get a free access to these courses through your local public library, and most of them, they have access to Udemy. That's what I have. Just get a membership and just go through your library, click it, and you can access it for free. You don't have to pay for it. And there are, like, a lot of like, bunch of useful courses, like, related to even, like, business acquisition, like, I look through like, like, for me, I wanted to learn, like, accounting and things like that. And there are, like, bunch of them up there, yeah, so it's pretty useful, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:03:17
Now see, there you go, so you can get in there for free. You can get free training, and then you can use this tool. So you will, you'll eventually reach your your request limit on the agent, but it's like 20 bucks a month. So if you pay 20 bucks a month to do this, and you get recurring income of $500 a month, huge.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:40
Yes, I'm excited.

Speaker 1  1:03:43
Yeah, yeah. And you don't really have to know anything technically, like being lazy, you know, I could go create the site myself, but creating, at this point in my career, creating a website is something I hate doing, like I don't. I just it's so tedious and I don't want to deal with it, but using this tool half hour an hour, that was nice. It was I was shocked, and it didn't. And here's another thing you can do with replit. If it doesn't work like you think it's going to work like, say, there's a button that doesn't click, or whatever that should my one of the big struggles I had was the map. So you go to the detail, you click on the business detail and it have a map, and the map was said, like, unable to display, or link not found, or whatever. Then I told it to determine why the map on the Detail page wasn't displaying and fix the issue. And it did, oh, yeah, it's smart to debug itself and fix the issue. And it'll it shows you the steps it's taken. I'll try so it says, Oh, I found a problem with this. I'll try this solution that didn't work. I'll try this solution that didn't work. I'll try this solution that did work. Verify. I'll redeploy. Verify that it works. It's amazing. It really is the Tech. Technology in this is amazing. Yeah, it's, it's very, very impressive. In the last six months, it's, they're called llms, large language models have gotten ridiculously smart. It's scary.

Speaker 9  1:05:17
Skynet, frankly, I recently was trying to reach out to a virtual assistant for my business, and I decided to stop because I recently just went for training in AI. And if you think creating the website is fascinating, we had this guy teach us how to implement this in our business, that you could literally go to sleep and AI will be automated in your business and be answering your phone call like, you know, replying and uploading files for you. I was like, Oh, my god,

Speaker 1  1:06:04
yeah, it's amazing. Yeah, I use AI and all my Airbnbs. Ai answers all of my questions. Says, What are the checkout rules? How do you change the thermostat? What's the door code, like all of that stuff. I don't answer that. Ai answers that. And it, every single month, it gets a little bit better, and it, when I look at the responses that it puts out there, it's cheerful, it's happy, it's like, it's using all the things that you would want from someone with good hospitality, like, drive safe. Thank you so much. You've been a great guest. We can't wait to see you again. Like, it's very personable, it's It's scary how good it is.

Speaker 7  1:06:50
I think I've been taking it so I'm not a programmer at all. Can't do anything right? I'm still trying to figure out how they made Tetris back in, like, the 80s.

Speaker 1  1:06:59
Like, I don't know, it's actually very, very complex, yeah.

Speaker 7  1:07:04
I mean it, yeah. Well, those Russians, they know what they're doing. But, you know, I I think AI is like electricity, I really do. I think those who know how to harness it will, will be the future. I don't think AI is going to replace I think people who know how to use AI are going to replace other people. That's the big thing. And just a little bit that I've used this this week, I'm in another school, and that's all they're doing, is talking about how to build out AI agents. So what we're doing in a couple businesses that I have, we're building out, forget VAs for a second. We're replacing C level executives on, hey, creating, like, a chief marketing officer. And then we're chatting with AI and like, what's the overall plan? What are the goals? Not break it down. What do we need to do today to reach, you know, this quarter? Yada, yada, yada. And it is BA, boom, boom, boom, boom, and then deploying it like it's so, yeah, it's not like I've used VAs in the Philippines and Egypt and different places, but now I know I don't need to necessarily go hire the Harvard graduate for six figures. Plus. I mean,

Speaker 1  1:08:18
I use AI every day in my in my regular job and in my businesses, like every day, I don't google anything. I ask AI. I ask chat GPT, because it's quicker. It gives me better responses. I don't have to weed through the advertisements and stuff like in if you are fairly technologically savvy, you can, you can set up your own deep seek AI model, and you can train it to do whatever you want it to do. If you wanted to trade stocks in a closed environment to see what would happen if you bought Q, Q, Q, for the next five days. You know, whatever it is. Um, you can train it to your specific business that there's just there's so much that you can do with it. Yeah, it's exciting. And I think right now we're in the wild, wild west of AI, where everything's free, at least they have a free version of everything. Five years from now, won't be like that. You're not going to get anything for free, hardly AI. It's going to not the good ones, anyway, the ones that really do things. You pay in for everything, 100, 200 300 a month subscription. And it'll still be worth it. But right now you can get them in on the ground floor, where they're just they're still training their models. They're using your the data, the things that you're asking, to make it better so they don't mind having it open. So if you can get in right now and make money off it now, you're golden. These this time will not come back around. It's like the early days of the internet. Same thing. Early Days of blockchain. Same thing. If you could buy bitcoin in 2050 like 16 and what would you have now? Even though it's depressed, it's still you'd have a. 20 fold profits, same thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:03
Shane, are you? Shane,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:06
are you into crypto?

Speaker 1  1:10:09
I keep my my investments in crypto less less than 5% and because it's I don't like gambling, and at this point it is still gambling, because the the the the crypto that has the most utility and is the most useful is not the ones that are the most expensive and that grow the most. There are so many different coins and they're so related to the marketing for them that I stay out. So the ones I do invest in is I invest in Bitcoin, Ethereum and Solana, I was a big proponent for a long time in Adam. But even though Adam is a great is a great blockchain, and the token is great, it just didn't have a lot of marketing behind it, so it's kind of fallen off. So I just stay with those three. And if you wanted to, if you just invested only in Bitcoin and Ethereum, they're not going anywhere. They have utility. They have use, and I don't see them going anywhere. But I keep it low because it's, it's, it's too volatile. I don't, I don't like to gamble. That's not where I'm at in my life right now, maybe, maybe 20 years ago. No,

Speaker 8  1:11:30
I just wanted to ask if you could send me the information for the credit repair.

Speaker 1  1:11:35
Sure, sure. Okay. I always forget that we got new people. So for the newer people, if you, if you're looking for credit repair, we have, we haven't, a partnership with a credit repair company called biz funding accelerator, I think is what it is. And so they give us reduced rates in order to do credit repair, and it's a one time fee, which I was very, I was very particular about that. I didn't want them to string people along, because that's, that's what the credit repair people do, right? They charge 150 bucks a month. They string you along, six, 810, sometimes a year. And and maybe they fixed everything, maybe they didn't. So this is a one time upfront fee, and which I think it's 500 I think is what it is correct me, if I wrong, some people I know have already done it. And then the they also do business funding. And the business funding generally is 10% the cheapest I've ever seen anyone do is nine and a half. And I think we're getting 8% sometimes less it, depending on what you need, like, if it's going to be difficult to get you that business funding. He was just, he just messaged me the other day saying that he's getting ready to do a round of funding for someone to get them 80k in funding. That was their goal. And he said it should be easy. So there you go. And just like our 10 year plan that we talked about tonight, if you got one round,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:14
there's your 10 year plan, one round of funding.

Speaker 1  1:13:19
But yeah, true Finco and I forget the other one, true Finco. They're all 10% for capital stacking, and they're usually 150 or more per month for credit repair. But yeah, that was no

Unknown Speaker  1:13:39
who asked me that I'm sorry. Bri, Okay, gotcha. Gotcha.

Speaker 1  1:13:45
And so how it works? Just, just DM me in the school, and then I'll send him your name and tell him that you're from the community, and then I'll send you a link, and you'll be able to fill out the application, and then he can start you'll have, like, a free consultation, where they'll do a free credit report, whatever they'll look at your credit report, and just basically like, yes, we can definitely help you. Or, Oh, you just filed bankruptcy last month. There's not a lot we can do, you know, because some some things can't be fixed. You

Unknown Speaker  1:14:23
i Yeah, just, just DM me and

Unknown Speaker  1:14:26
I'll send him your information.

Speaker 8  1:14:33
Okay, one other question so you know, as I get my credit, you know, back to where I would like it to be. It's not terrible. But would you recommend that I start by looking at a business. It's like $100,000

Unknown Speaker  1:14:49
you're like, where should I start from here?

Speaker 1  1:14:52
It's a great question. So I think, I think you earlier if you missed some of this class, like if you watched the beginning of it. I kind of explain why the the sweet spot is 350,000 The reason why that is is because we're getting SBA loans when you start and the SBA seven, a program from 350 to 5 million only requires 10% down. Now if you try to get a loan for 349 they want 20% down. So you would have to put in almost $70,000 for a 349 where if it's 350 it's 35,000 so that's kind of the it's kind of the sweet spot there, 350,000 and also you get a certain amount of employees, and you know, all that stuff, I would encourage you to kind of go back through the the courses and check that out as to why. But that's what it's 353 50 is ideal, because when you get down to the 100, like so $100,000 range is usually a home based business. They might have one or two employees. It's probably owner operator. It's very precarious in the way that it's set up. There's a lot of what they what I would consider tribal knowledge, which means a lot of stuff that only the owner knows, that when that owner leaves, you no longer have that information, right? So, and the reason why the SBA below 350 wants 20% is because they consider those riskier as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:33
Does that make sense? Bri,

Speaker 8  1:16:36
yes. Thank you. And then so out of curiosity, have you guys tried other types of loans. Why do you choose to use the SBA other over other options? Sure.

Speaker 1  1:16:47
So when I first started, I was using SBA. Now I use a traditional bank because I'm able to bring a bigger down payment. I have a relationship with a local lender. I get better rates and even a longer amortization. The problem when you first start is your traditional bank, for one private money won't fund you because you've never unless you've done it before. You know they're looking for super safe investments. A bank will fund you, but they want 20% down. And so if you have enough capital to do 20% down that can be a viable option. But most, most of us, when we get started, we don't have, you know, for so if you try to buy a $300,000 business, most people don't have 60 grand, you know, sitting around, just extra to deploy on this business. So that's why the SBA, it's like it removes that down payment barrier to entry. And also the SBA, where banks won't allow this, but the SBA will allow you to finance up, you know, half of that down payment with the owner. So if you find a business for, say, 400,000

Unknown Speaker  1:18:00
you would need 40 grand as your 10%

Speaker 1  1:18:05
most I just learned this today. I thought it was 35% but it's in the 70% so most deals in the last five years have included some sort of seller finance. So you find one for 400,000 the normal down payment would be 40,000 but the owner can finance half of that for on a two year note, and it's completely acceptable through the SBA seven, a loan program. So you put $20,000 on a $40,000 or, excuse me, $400,000 business through the SBA now bank won't let you do that. No bank that I've ever been around. So it's the SBA backing a bank that allows it. So they force the bank to adhere to their guidelines, where, if you go to a bank directly, you don't try to use the SBA. They're going to say they want 20% down. You have to bring all of that 20% yourself. You can't finance any of it. They're going to hardcore vet your which they're both going to do that all your financials and everything. All that ends up being the same, but they're just more strict because the SBA is not backing them.

Speaker 8  1:19:15
And then should I start an LLC? Do I need that? And like business banking and that type of a thing to get started in this as well.

Speaker 1  1:19:24
If you want to get funding through capital stacking or something like that, then yes, and I think it's not, was it last week or the week before? That? Video explains exactly how to start your LLC. And there's a whole there's a whole there's a whole kit in the community, if you want to do it yourself, or you want to go through, you know, one of the online places, but my so you can buy a business a couple of ways, really more than that, but it basically boils down to an asset sale or stock sale. So. Now with the stock sale, what you're doing is you're assuming the ownership of what they already have. So if it's an LLC already, then they're just going to transfer ownership of their LLC to you. That's one way. The second way is an asset sale, where you have your own LLC, or whatever Corporation, and you're going to you're going to list, you're going to buy all the assets that they currently have in that business, which is the the equipment, the whatever, and you even include the goodwill, which is the name of the business, and stuff like that. And then you put doing business as that business. So there's those are like the two main ways. And a lot of people will say all you want to do is, you know, by, you know, have that LLC transferred in your name, that's fine. And you you get all the banking history, you get all that stuff. But you also open yourself up to potential liability. If there's an active lawsuit, if there's something going on that you don't know about, you also inherit that where, with an asset sale, things start from scratch, right? You're less likely to open yourself up to litigation, like, say, the week before you purchase someone slips and falls. It's a lot harder for that person to sue you on an asset sale than it would be to sue you for, you know, the stock sale. But yeah, I explained all that stuff. I think it's two weeks ago. The it's LLC, DIY kit or something. But if you're looking to get funding for a down payment, you Yeah, that and capital stack, you're going to need an LLC. But if you're ready, and you just want to buy a business and you have a down payment already, then you can, you can, you don't have to create it in any special way. You just, you know, you can use one of those companies, create one and then do an asset sale.

Speaker 8  1:21:56
Okay, yeah, I do have, like, my dad is willing to help me with that kind of thing, so he might be able to do something now. But I definitely want to, you know, get myself prepared for the future as well, right?

Speaker 1  1:22:10
And if you, you know, if you're looking to do a round of funding, you need to have some businesses queued up first. You need to have some some some stuff going on, maybe even one under an LOI, if you can. But you need to have some options before you do a fun a rounding fund, round of funding. So because you have a year of no interest credit, sometimes 18 months, so you want to definitely be able to execute and buy that business within that within that year. So, yeah, I explained that a lot more in some of the other videos.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:50
I hope that helps.

Speaker 1  1:22:52
Yes, thank you. Yeah, no problem, no problem. And you know, if you have any questions in general, you know, post them in any like, especially the business stuff, LLC, whatever, post them in in the community, and people that have been around for a while, or me will will definitely answer them. You know, it's a, it's a takes a village, right? That's, that's what we're trying to build.

Speaker 8  1:23:16
I'm really grateful for this community, and just honestly, finding your Tiktok, and everything that you guys have have been doing here, because, as someone that doesn't really have, like my parents, own their own business, but they don't really have an LLC, it's just kind of, you know, they they own a job, essentially, and, and I want more for myself, so I do appreciate This community,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:39
yeah, and we're glad to have you,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:44
Dan, you had your hand up.

Speaker 7  1:23:46
Yeah. I am just listening to the questions and going over everything we did today, especially talking about AI. I'm going to kind of put you on the spot and feel free to say no, because I don't know what the right answer is, but I'm like, we get into like, all this now we're going on like, two or three hours of this, and there's so much information, would you be opposed to adding, like, an AI note taker and at least, like, having it bullet point? The key takeaways from three hours of content that we when you post the video, you can post the bullet points as well. I think that could be helpful

Speaker 1  1:24:24
over I think that's a great idea, because, you know, there, there's a actually, I might be able to use notebook LM, which is free from Google, to actually give it a transcript and a summary of this. But, yeah, that's a good point, because you never know what we're going to get with these, you know. So, like, I'm already, I use, I use AI to get a summary, and I throw it in the summary after the class, because to try to just give everybody bullet points. But to have an actual, you know, document with notes, I think it's a great idea. Yeah, yeah, I'll definitely and actually, I think there's an option in zoom where I can do that automatically. I'll do that next week, for sure.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:13
It's your group, man, I want you to know,

Speaker 1  1:25:15
no, it's a great idea. Because, you know, as we get more of these videos in the community, especially the Q and A, it's hard to see. What do we get into? You know? What do we really talk about?

Unknown Speaker  1:25:28
Yeah, I think it's a great idea. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:32
And it's, it's already incorporated into zoom, I'm pretty sure.

Speaker 1  1:25:38
Yeah, yeah, it is AI companion, yep, okay, does anybody have any other questions?

Unknown Speaker  1:25:52
This was good every week.

Speaker 1  1:25:55
Oh, wait, actually, I look up here, it says this meeting is being transcribed.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:02
So it's already being transcribed.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:08
So there you go. It's gotta find where the transcript goes.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:14
Yeah, Cool, good. Thanks for being open to that. I appreciate it.

Speaker 1  1:26:17
Yeah, I'm any anybody that has an idea of something to improve the community, or whatever, like, you know, this community is for every person in it. You know, it's not, if we can improve it, I'm all for it, absolutely. Oh, okay, there you go. Cloud recordings. I'm gonna get them. Shane clutch, I love it at the end, yeah. Ernie, clutch,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:55
the clutch. Googling. Thank you. I got a question

Speaker 2  1:26:59
that's kind of related to that last one. When you when she was talking about you when she was talking about getting funding? Okay? So you're saying one, you need to have your business account season for about 60 days, right? But then you're also saying, probably you need,

Speaker 1  1:27:19
so I'm saying that when you when, when you liquidate the cards to your personal account, those need to sit there for 60 days before you can even think about using them for a loan as a down payment for a loan. So that's what I mean. So you're taking those that business credit and put it in your personal account and then use that as your down payment,

Speaker 2  1:27:45
because, because what I'm hearing is maybe I'm missing it timing wise, you know, start the LLC, get a business account, but then you're kind of in this window because You're you do want to take advantage of that year, but you're also kind of under the gun because you don't want, you don't want the opportunity to slip away when you're trying to get maybe a business under an LOI, because you really don't have all these you don't have the time. Maybe you don't maybe you don't have the money yet, right?

Speaker 1  1:28:17
Well, most of the time they they might want a proof of funds, but not always. So if they want a proof of funds that, then that could potentially cripple you at the beginning, but most of the time they don't ask for that, in my experience, so, so that's why I say you need to have a few of them queued up right when you go, when you do your round of funding. So, and you would put your number one under loi, because what do we always say when we reach out? We say 60, you know, 90 to 180 days, right? So you get them under loi, then they're not shopping it around. They're, you know, that's part of your loi, which is the letter of intent. You're saying, Don't shop this around. You know you're dealing with me from this point on. And then you go for your rounds of funding. And you know that takes a couple of days. Your rounds of funding are quick. You liquidate those cards, you put them in your, your personal account for 60 days. And you're, you're well within the 90 days. But you need to have some queued up in case, right? You know, in case they're, you know, I don't know. It doesn't work out right? Maybe their financials are off or whatever, but you should have already at least vetted their financials and get the tax returns and all that stuff to know. Like, hey, this is a good possibility, but you don't want, you don't want just one good possibility. You want a couple.

Speaker 2  1:29:41
Yeah, I think that's, that's, that's good to know, because I think a lot of us are probably same situation was like, okay, timing wise, how do you do this when you don't have the the 10% or whatever, but you go, so it's kind of connecting the dots in terms of what order do you do these things in? And that's going to set you up to have the best possibility of getting funded. Uh, while also securing a good opportunity. But I think, you know, you hear 60 days, you're like, Well, you know, maybe I need to do this already. Wait 60 days and then now go and look for businesses. But you're saying you can kind of do it around the same time, and just,

Speaker 1  1:30:14
yeah, my recommendation would be to do it around the same time. It's unlikely that if you that, within a year you couldn't find, right? You know, something just like we looked at tonight, like every time we look, we find something decent, not perfect, but actionable, right? Anyway, right? Exactly, exactly.

Speaker 7  1:30:39
Dan, jump in there with one thing when it comes to an LLC or Corp or whatever, people are going to start, probably an LLC from a again, just so people know, like I worked at an asset protection law firm, it is in a state like it depends on what state you're in. There are some states who have fees for not only setting up an LLC, but yearly renewal fees. Like Texas is like several $100 a year as an example. Or even your Wyoming's or Nevada is several $100 a year Ohio as an example, once you set it up, there's no renewal fee every year, right? And especially if you guys are going to go take a bunch of action and go get a I'm just trusting everybody's going to get a business within the year, and then we're all going to celebrate. It's going to be great, right? But there's really IRS standpoint, when this is what a lot of law firms do, they go set up an LLC, and they just keep it on what they call the shelf. So you can literally just go set it up, as long as you don't fund a bank account, right? It really doesn't exist from an IRS standpoint, although, if you start a business on what's today, April 10, and then you go do around the funding on May 10, or you go do your round of funding in July because your credit's getting repaired, or whatever that is. Well, when they go look at that, they're going to go back to the incorporation date of the LLC, which would be April 10. So there's little when you talk about risk aversion, there's little to no risk of just getting your LLC set up. Just don't open a bank account with it yet if you're going through credit repair or whatever that is, but it's sitting there, right? So just throwing that out, you can go set up the LLC. You can file with the state. You can go get your EIN and just let it sit.

Speaker 1  1:32:38
Yeah, be sure you get your boi too. Though, to make sure you don't know

Unknown Speaker  1:32:41
why it's not a thing anymore. Oh, did they?

Speaker 1  1:32:44
Did they kill it? They killed it at the US Supreme Court. Yeah, really, I didn't see that.

Speaker 7  1:32:50
They killed it. And then they're actually looking to pass law so, like, the next administration can't bring it back. Now, that's up for grabs. But if you go to the fin, said website, all that fun stuff, you don't have

Speaker 2  1:33:03
to find Dan, what would be the reasons, again, for not connecting it to a bank account and

Unknown Speaker  1:33:09
you have to drop taxes on it, yeah.

Speaker 7  1:33:12
So the moment, the the moment that you fund an LLC with a bank account, right? Then it's real. Then you got to file depending on, again, just depending on how it's structured, depending that's another thing. You may have to file that on your taxes. You may have to claim it. You may have to you just may owe money that, if it's just sitting there,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:32
you can still set up the bank account, but just don't put any money

Speaker 7  1:33:37
in it. Usually, when you go set up a bank account,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:40
that's true. That's true in some small amount, though. Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:33:43
yeah. So that setting up a bank account for most especially if you use, like, an online bank, like a relay,

Speaker 1  1:33:50
that's what we take. Like, I like relay. I've been using it really.

Speaker 7  1:33:54
I'm big fan of relay, but, but again, everybody's situation is different. I'm just talking about, you know, Shane had the whole LLC thing set up for, you know, funding. There's little to no downside of just getting that set up. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:34:11
So in Missouri, it's $55 one time filing fee. You don't pay anything after. So your only risk is 55 bucks in my state. So if you're in a state like that, that's great. If you're in California, where you have to pay hundreds and hundreds of dollars, and you have to pay filing, different filing, stuff, every reporting, every year, that's different. But like just, just look and see what it is in your state. It can't hurt to especially if you're going to do it on your own. You know you're not going to pay some service hundreds of dollars to do it. You want to try it on your own. Even if you don't do it the right way, you're only out whatever the filing fee is, and you have the experience of doing it. But if you use the DIY kit, you can, you can do it on your own. Pay that filing fee, have an LLC, and if you don't find a business till next year or the year after, you haven't, if you. If you don't know and and business entity is considered aged after it's been around for two years, it could be two years to 100 years, it's still aged. It doesn't it's two years in one day. You get the same benefits as 100 years in one day. So I mean, as far as banks and finances are concerned, so but you don't have to have an aged corporation to get funding, but, but, yeah, that's that's a great point. If it can't hurt to create one, you're only out 50 bucks or 100 bucks, or whatever it is in your state.

Speaker 2  1:35:33
So there's a lot of noise out. I see when people start talking about funding, they'll say, Well, you should go out and get a real address, you should get a real phone number, you should get a real website. So when you're talking about funding with capital stacking, is that also recommended? Or are you saying, Hey, do you not need it? Well, there's two

Speaker 1  1:35:55
different kinds of funding that you're talking about you. So you're talking about either you got on one side you get you're talking about loans and lines of credit. I got you, you know, so that that's when you need the physical address, you need, you need the website, you need all that stuff, because it's going to be a person that's determining whether or not they want to fund you by how much you know you're making. Is your LLC really established, all that kind of stuff, whereas, on the flip side, if you're trying to capital stack, you're getting business credit cards. It's different. So you're, you're battling the algorithm in that sense. So you just need to hit those marks. They're gonna, it's gonna look at your your email account that you put on the application and see if it ends in Gmail, AOL, Yahoo, that kind of stuff. You know, that's why, in that, that last the same thing I was talking about with Bree that last video, you know, the things in there, I tried to make a distinction between what mattered for capital stacking, what mattered for lines of credit. Because if, if you want to get a line of credit, and you want to get a startup loan, or something like that from a bank on a fresh LLC. You got to have everything together. But if, but capital stacking, it's different, yeah, yeah, it's definitely different. It's simpler, but you still need a phone. You need a phone number, and if you have a one 800 number, that's great. You need a an address. It doesn't have to, but with capital stacking, it doesn't have to be a brick and mortar. It can be a virtual address, like I postal or something, and you need an email address that's not Gmail or Yahoo. Other than that, it's based on your personal credit. But you just, you have to, you know, that's why they're doing those applications at one in the morning. You know, they you just have to click those little things off and bam, you've got 25 grand on a card, you know, just like that.

Speaker 7  1:37:56
Just, I'm sorry, I don't want to keep jumping in, but I want to clarify one thing, because I just double checked about the boi, because I don't know where everybody's logging in from. If, if you're a US citizen, with a US based LLC or a corp, you don't have to do the boi as of right now. That's what they gotta. If you're from Canada, across the world, filing an entity in in the US, then you have to just throwing that out there. There's makes sense.

Speaker 1  1:38:25
I never really had a problem with like, it was free, and now, if they were charging me for it, I'd have a problem for it, with it, but like, I didn't really ever care.

Speaker 7  1:38:35
We did ours. But yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:38:40
So for those that don't know, bois is what beneficial ownership interest or something like that, and it's essentially putting your name on the entity that you create and logging it with the federal government. So the IRS wanted to know who owns these LLCs, because there's a lot of anonymity, and especially some states like Wyoming, Delaware, those kind of states where you can, you can own, like a, you know, you hear a shell corporation or a ghost corporation, or something like that, like and they wanted to prevent that, so they created policy that said, if you didn't register with FinCEN and get your boi number, that you could be fined up to $500 a day. So there's been a lot of court cases that battled that. I think it went through the Texas Supreme Court the last I heard, and so it must have gone, either went all the way to the US Supreme Court, or they just had an executive order or something to kill it. But there was a lot of business people that didn't want that, because they wanted that anonymity. But regardless, it's not really affecting your everyday people like us. It's it, you know, I don't care. I don't care if they know I own the business. I mean, I go on Tiktok live, and I talk about owning businesses all the time. I don't care. You know, it doesn't bother me.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:56
But some people, you know, they like to keep things. Secret So,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:03
but that's good information. No, I did not see that. Damn.

Speaker 1  1:40:11
So, Gina, you said your business name came, came you walk in purpose LLC, Okay, walk in purpose consulting LLC, or walk in purpose enterprises, walk and purpose management, all right, I like it. Okay, well, this was, this was a good one. Thank you, everybody for for for showing up and the great questions, and for listening to me ramble for hours on end without ceasing. I appreciate that. So it'll. What will happen is overnight, it'll, this video will download to my computer, and sometime tomorrow, I will upload the video to the community, and I'll put a post that that it's there. But as always, if you ever have any questions or you're looking for funding or whatever, just DM me or post a general question in whatever channel seems the most relevant for that question, and I'll answer it, or everybody will answer it, but we'll definitely get you an answer. And so yeah, thanks everybody for showing up. Thanks for the new people, and we'll be here next week. Thanks everybody. Thank you, everyone. You.
