Speaker 1  00:02
Hello, everyone. This is the money Language Academy, mentorship, Q and A, and it is April 3, and just going to open it up to anybody that has questions. Doesn't matter what it is, anything investing businesses, what you got? Ernie, Aaron,

Speaker 2  00:25
yeah, quick question. So, if you use a tool like a prop stream, can you find, like, commercial properties, like, not a residential and, like, maybe, like, some off market deals, or where you can, like, skip trace to an owner and maybe talk to them like, even though, like they're not selling it, but because I haven't used the prop stream before. So just just wondering, you,

Speaker 1  00:52
Eric, you probably answer that better than me. I don't use prop stream. I use the free prop wire because I'm tight.

Speaker 3  01:00
Yes, far as commercial goes, you can still find commercial stuff on there. I don't use prop stream for the skip tracing. I actually use a different software. I have several softwares that I use for the whole selling stuff, but I use batch leads for for skip tracing. It just gives you more accurate and they actually do free skip tracing. If you you purchase the bachelor's, they give you so many skip traces with your with your membership through them. But, yeah, what he's pulling up now, loop net is really good for commercial properties.

Speaker 1  01:36
Yeah, loop net is great. And so you can put your city in there, you know, because there's commercial real estate covers a lot of different areas, right? It can be anything from technically, anything five units or more, bigger is commercial real estate. Or we got light industrial buildings. You got huge shopping malls, like, I don't know, Walmart, not Walmart. That's not a good example. But you know, grocery stores where they got a triple in lease, you know, with whatever groceries, like all that stuff is on here, co working spaces. So if you were looking for industrial

Unknown Speaker  02:14
What state are you in? Ernie?

Unknown Speaker  02:19
In Austin, yeah, Texas, yeah, yeah. That's right, Austin, so let's see,

Speaker 1  02:27
boom, there you go. I mean, tons and tons and tons of properties. Let's just zoom in somewhere. Say you like real

Speaker 3  02:37
estate, anything that might have a loan on it. I can tell you, through Prop stream what the loan is and who it's, through interest rates, all that kind of stuff. Through prop stream, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
And you can, like, on the commercial side as well.

Speaker 3  02:53
You can, right, okay, yeah, on some of them, like, Okay, pull up any one of these properties Shane, and I'll see if I can, what I can put up.

Unknown Speaker  03:03
Here's one right here,

Speaker 1  03:06
montopolis distribution center, 6406 Burleson Road. A good thing about loop net too, is you can put, you can define, you know, you can your area where you want to invest the types, you know, if you're just looking for maybe a six Plex, eight Plex, something like that, you can put that in there. If you're looking for, like, a warehouse with this range, like, it's got really good filters on there, and you can set it up to send you emails as new things come up. It's, it's really cool. Like, I actually had to shut off some of my searches. I was getting too much. I was like, Okay, we gotta slow this down. It was driving me nuts. But, yeah, it's, it's some of the best search functionality out there.

Unknown Speaker  03:54
Okay, thank you. Were you able to find her?

Speaker 3  03:59
Eric, not that one particularly might

Speaker 1  04:05
be too big, yeah, yeah. Definitely on what prop stream will have is, like the apartment buildings this, where it looks like it's like some sort of, you know, light industrial, like a office building, warehouse. It looks like they've got, you know, shipping bays and all that kind of stuff. That's going to be a little different.

Speaker 3  04:26
Yeah, I haven't really moved into that sector, you know, the apartment buildings and things like that. I have dealt with that part of it, but I haven't really gotten into, like, retail spaces. And you know,

Speaker 1  04:38
well, we can look for those. Let's look at multi family. You'll find those. So let's find one that's a big one 281 unit apartment building that might be too big, 2500 Willow Street.

Unknown Speaker  04:57
I bet that's cheap too.

Speaker 1  05:03
It doesn't say, you know, it's a lot of money. When they don't tell you how much it is. It's a great question, though, and I think, I think commercial real estate is really good. There's, and there's a lot of people. What is his name? Nolan? Nolan Nolan is somebody that I've talked to a couple of times that's on Tiktok that has really good information. That's all they do. They're they're kind of similar in in the way I started with trying to find cash flow in traditional real estate section eight, all that. But what he did is he pivoted to commercial and especially light industrial buildings, and he scaled that way because he found that it was easier to take down the huge deals with with less money down than it was in your traditional real estate. So, yeah, he's really, he's really good though.

Speaker 3  05:54
No, it's not pulling that one up either. Okay, probably too big. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I found, I found a lot of use out of Prop stream, though, for sure,

Speaker 1  06:05
yeah, yeah, it, I mean, it's the, it's the number one site for that kind of information, by far. It's the most popular. Great question, though, Ernie.

Speaker 4  06:17
Ernie, are you? Are you particularly looking in Texas?

Speaker 2  06:23
Yeah, I at least for now, just since I live here and I have family, but

Speaker 4  06:29
yeah, oh, good. I So we've done a lot in Texas over the last year or so. And I didn't realize this when I went to Texas. It's a non disclosure state, meaning that not all the information is going to be public record, like in like, I'm sitting in Ohio right now, anything and everything is all public record, right? Texas is, sorry, was that Eric

Speaker 3  06:56
said, Yeah, you're correct about that. Yeah, you even if people love Zillow, it's not going to show you any kind of records of what property sold for anything in Texas.

Speaker 4  07:04
Yeah, well, here's what, what I'm getting at, and here's what I found over the last 18 months or so. We have a couple different like propelio is something we use in Texas that can get us all the information that we need, because it's based off of the MLS and whatever, whether it's commercial or residential. But one of the things I've learned Zillow, your loop nets, your these types of things, even though it's not public record, every time I compare what is sold to what is what the Zestimate, I know there's a lot of people who are passionate about the Zestimate is way off, right? And I get that, and I know you're shaking your head right now, and I agree with most of that I do. But what I have found in Texas, in particular, in the DFW area, Dallas, Fort Worth, where I've done a lot more that Zestimates been off by at most $300 you don't become the number one realist, and I'm just throwing this out there, you don't become the number one real estate website in the world, and have that way off. It doesn't make sense.

Speaker 1  08:13
So when you when you compare it to the other estimated estimating services out there, I do find that the Zillow estimate is closer than all the other ones that, I mean, some of them are wildly inaccurate.

Speaker 4  08:28
Yeah, diligence you need to do pretty good. But if you're not wanting to go pay $1,000 a year for another subscription, I'm just throwing it out there where I have, I've literally found it. I've compared apples to apples to paying for the subscription. Going Zillow is off by $300 because it's sold for whatever 300,000 Zillow saying it's worth 299 nine. Well, it's pretty darn close, right? Just throwing that out there, that's one Fun little fact. Now, when it comes to the finishings, what kind of countertops you're putting in, or what the lease looks I mean, there's a lot of variables there, but if you see something sold in the last couple years, I'm just saying nine times out of 10, it's been pretty darn accurate. And I've that's been shocking, shocking to me.

Speaker 2  09:22
And also, I want to mention that the website, the one Shane shared earlier the prop wire, for some reason, even though Texas is a non disclosure state, you can see the owner and the original the mortgage amount. So basically it tells you the how much the house is sold for. So like other tools, I didn't find that information, but prop wire, it does share. That's interesting.

Speaker 1  09:48
I like prop wire, and you can even they have a paid service. We can get more information. It's just be careful that the data isn't is not as fresh as prop stream, so it's going to be a little dated, especially. Their their estimate on there. If you start comparing their estimates to other sites, it's not quite as accurate, but, but that other information, yeah, it's great. I like prop wire.

Speaker 3  10:13
Yeah, I would be able to do most of what I do on a daily basis without prop stream. That's where I get most of my most of my stuff for what I do on my daily

Unknown Speaker  10:27
All right, does

Speaker 1  10:37
anybody else have any questions that I missed? Anybody post questions in the chat that I missed. Possibly it's a lot of good stuff in here, though, no questions. Anybody have

Unknown Speaker  10:57
something? Anybody find a good business this week?

Unknown Speaker  11:03
And all the searches,

Speaker 4  11:04
I will say for the first time, I got financial sent over to me. So I considered that a big win. Okay, what

Unknown Speaker  11:10
kind of business was it?

Unknown Speaker  11:12
It's an automotive repair shop. Oh, nice, yeah.

Speaker 1  11:17
Oh, you said, Did you send me that you did, didn't you? No, this

Speaker 4  11:20
is a different one. Oh, this is a different one. So the guy there was a guy from Illinois that I messaged you DM before I joined the group, because you did a thing, a guy right now kind of ghosted, but it's just building the pipeline, doing what we can. This is a this is a different one has it has a team of nine employees. It's been in business for 31 years. Person's retiring, and I literally just got 27 pages of stuff today. Nice.

Speaker 1  11:49
So you got the OEM or the OM, excuse me, you got the the tax returns, the year to dates, the the PnL or the year to date, and the P and L's Okay, cool. What's that? Do? You know what the cash flow compared to the asking price is?

Unknown Speaker  12:07
I haven't even looked at it yet. To be

Speaker 4  12:11
candid, all I did is I downloaded it and I sent it over. I got a business partner. He's a numbers guy, actually is a mechanic and by trade, so he's looking at all that, and I joined the call.

Speaker 1  12:23
So, nice, nice. Yeah, I'm sure I'm gonna have questions on it. Well, that's, like, the most exciting part. You get those financials and you get to dig in. It's like, yeah, that's, that's the fun part. It's either going to be amazing and you you got a journey ahead of you, or it like crap. What I waste my time. But it can go either way, and when it's when it's good, it's it's a lot of fun.

Speaker 4  12:45
Yeah, just build the pipeline, my friend, yeah. Oh, good, yeah.

Speaker 1  12:49
And that's what I did on the first hour repairs. My friend's been a mechanic for 25 years, and he was a great resource, like to, you know, the quality of the lifts and the the tools that they have in there, and they're how they pay their employees, because there's, like, old ways to pay the the text and the mechanics, and there's new ways, you know, how they bid, like, all that stuff that I just didn't know about. He, He gave me all of that information. So it's huge. Yeah? Well, cool, super cool.

Unknown Speaker  13:27
This was awesome. Thanks for setting it up. That's all I got.

Speaker 1  13:30
Thank you. Yeah, yeah. I'm surprised people didn't have I think I wore everybody out with the burr stuff. And I don't know, I would imagine that we probably have a lot of people that didn't realize the new people that didn't realize we had class tonight, so that's kind of a bummer, but they'll get to see this new people. If you see this at this recording, you missed out all

Speaker 3  13:54
I can say. I'm just going to sell myself one more time. If anybody wants to or needs to find or sell anything, hit me up. And, you know, let's see what we can't get some deals closed.

Speaker 1  14:08
Yeah, nice. Oh, I think there is something from, from last week. So we have all of those at those documents in the community about business entities. How, you know, all the templates, all the different training videos. Like, you know, somebody in the community anonymously donated that stuff. And super cool, like, we have a ton of stuff now. As far as business entities creating that stuff, doing it the right way, that's huge. So don't forget to go check that stuff out, because we had a lot of questions. Or was it two weeks ago about, you know, C corps and S corps and LLCs and the operating agreements, all that stuff we went over. We have good, concrete, lawyer vetted templates that you can use and are available to every. One so super cool.

Unknown Speaker  15:02
Thank you. Anonymous donator,

Speaker 5  15:05
and I was going to ask, are there any CPAs in this group, like, just or someone who knows

Unknown Speaker  15:14
personal question that I

Speaker 1  15:16
wish, I wish there were. I want to I'm I just made a post on it actually last night. Like, my dream acquisition is an accounting firm. Like, that's, I'm really hardcore looking for an accounting firm on the next one, because you know that that synergy right there, it can, it would help all the other businesses. It's recession resistant. It's and I did the research. I can own one in Missouri. I don't have to be a CPA to own one. So, you know, you have to, we have to look into that first. But no, I don't think so. I wish there was,

Unknown Speaker  15:52
but not so far.

Unknown Speaker  15:56
I should reach out and invite some

Speaker 3  15:59
I actually say we need, we need to do some recruiting. We were growing. We're getting pretty good in here. So it would be somebody to recruit, for sure,

Unknown Speaker  16:08
yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely.

Speaker 1  16:13
I might ask my, my current accountant, if they would, they would come in here. They would try to just sell their services to everybody, which is fine, you know, because they can also answer questions at the same time. But that might be worth it. You can ask your tax questions and bombard them with stuff. Miller says, I know a great company for tax prep and biz structure, specialize in real estate. Nice, yeah. And you know, it depends on what you're doing. Some some CPAs are great for bookkeeping and business stuff, and other ones are great for real estate. It's hard to find one that can do everything, but if you find a accounting firm, they generally have experts in all those different sectors. So when you're doing the kind of stuff that we're doing, where you're just all over the place with your investing, it's hard to find a good accountant that knows how to deal with everything. It really is.

Speaker 2  17:16
Question You mentioned about the licenses. How do you find this kind of information? Like, let's say, if I want to purchase a business in particular sector, like, if I need to have a license or not in like, in my state, usually when you use those, like government websites, they don't provide this kind of information. So do you need to ask? Like, attorney or

Unknown Speaker  17:41
nope, chat GPT,

Speaker 1  17:44
because most of this stuff is in a post that'll give you. So here's, here's what I like. So for instance, like the property management, right? I got into that, not knowing that I had to have a broker on staff. So I just put do I need to

Unknown Speaker  18:06
do? I need a license

Unknown Speaker  18:10
to be a property

Unknown Speaker  18:14
manager in Missouri. Do?

Speaker 1  18:22
It gives you all the requirements right there, so the experience, so it'll just give you a breakdown of what it requires, and then you just keep refining that search. And usually like so just like we were talking about the NAR, there are all these associations out there of professionals that have all these rules on their website, so realtors, accountants, you know the whatever like. If it's in a you want to buy a, I don't know if it's a law firm. You can go and find out if you can own a law firm by looking at the whatever state board and see what that says. But this will give you an idea to begin with, and then you can move on from there. So somebody sent me a thing about pest control. So do I need to be to have a license to own a pest control company in, let's say Texas, Ernie, because you asked the question. And you know, this is not always the best information, but it gives you a starting point. And usually they'll say, like, if it doesn't have a lot of information, it will give you an idea of where to look and look right there. Texas Department of Agriculture, Structural Pest Control, they have a department in the Texas State government that would have all of that information right there for you, or somebody that you could reach out to an email and say, Hey, I'm I would like to buy a pest control company in Texas. Do I need a license? Or do. Just my employees need licenses, and most people will answer those kind of questions. You know, they're not really jerks about it usually, but there you go. So at least your employees, okay, there you go. Must designate a responsible, certified commercial applicator who holds that license? So they designate somebody, but doesn't mean you have to have it.

Unknown Speaker  20:26
That's probably the way it goes. Thank you.

Speaker 2  20:36
So worth it right to have a paid subscription like chat GPT or Claude AI.

Speaker 1  20:44
You don't have to, like, you can get all this stuff. It's, it's how much you use it during the day, if you're just using it here and there, you don't really need it. So you can get these questions that I just asked. You could have got that for the free subscription too. But, like, this is, this is what I really love. Create a logo for a pest control company

Unknown Speaker  21:08
named Bernie's pest control

Speaker 1  21:25
it, but, yeah, I just like tinkering with it. It still amazes me. Does anybody else have any questions? Everybody's kind of quiet tonight. You haven't lost hope, have you? I'm still fighting the good fight.

Speaker 5  21:54
Is this the paid version you have, or is this the free version?

Speaker 1  21:58
This is the paid version, but it'll still do these things. The paid for the difference between the paid version and the free is how many inquiries you get throughout the day. So the free one will give you like, you know, stop you after a little while, there you go. Ernie, we already started your business, so you're ready to go. Yeah, like that. And even a month ago, these images didn't look like this. Any of the text was garbled and messed up. So now, now it's doing that pretty, pretty consistently the right way.

Speaker 5  22:33
Yeah, I just came from a training today. I was there the entire day, from 10am to 4pm and then I stayed back. It was all chat, GPT, and it blew my mind. What I can do with AI is this guy that's traveling around the world teaching about AI, and I was opportune to be under his nose today, learning the whole day. So I just got them off the class today. The whole day was all AI, yeah, absolutely.

Speaker 1  23:08
So let me show you this. So I'm I'm disconnected right now, but so this one, this is AI, it's called replit, and replit allows you to just send, just, you know, instructions to it. And it'll create an app, a phone app. It'll create websites. And it does it really efficiently, and it does a great job. So what I was looking to do is I wanted to create without doing it manually because I didn't have time, was a directory of lawn care services in my area that I could then put my landscaping company first, right and so, so if somebody was looking for lawn care in this area, you would see this directory, and mine's there every time at the At the top of that list with good reviews, so I can show you the end result.

Unknown Speaker  24:09
What was the AI again,

Speaker 1  24:11
replit, R, E, P, L, i, t, and it'll allow you to create it for free, but then you'll get to a certain amount of requests and changes with their agent, and then it will, it will stop working. Where's that?

Unknown Speaker  24:34
Make it redeploy.

Speaker 1  24:38
But all I did, I didn't code anything. I just told it do this. I said, Use Google Places to find all of these businesses in my area with, you know, in this area code so it lists them, and it connects to their Google business profile to pull in their logo, their ad. S all of that stuff, and I didn't have to do any of that manually. So here, here's a great hustle you want to go to you if you want to do this. You know what people charge to do something like this? They charge, like, $1,000 for the site, or they'll, they'll maintain it for $500 a month. You can do something like this with AI, with very little expertise in tech, and you can shop this out to local business owners. You can say, hey, I can increase your SEO and the traffic to your normal website by creating this website and making sure you're at the top every time. And I'll optimize that in the searches to make sure that it comes up and business owners will pay, you know, because you pay a lot of money for leads on, you know, for businesses.

Unknown Speaker  25:50
Okay, I think it did deploy.

Unknown Speaker  25:54
Let me see if I can get to where's the

Speaker 5  25:57
So, what did you say you were using this bargain for your business. I'm trying to get some ideas.

Speaker 1  26:03
I'll just ask it, where's it at it? So what I wanted to do is I wanted to do something that would increase traffic to my website that didn't cost any money. You know, it wasn't a Google ad. It was something that was just on the outside that I could use. So let me get the I'll show you what the site looks like. There it is. Now, this is just they, it deployed it. It hosts it.

Unknown Speaker  26:43
Oh, man, wire. Oh, yeah, that's it. Why is it not working?

Unknown Speaker  27:02
I don't know what's going on. I was working

Unknown Speaker  27:14
earlier process. Oh yeah, it didn't deploy it. Hold on again.

Speaker 1  27:23
This is a this is a tangent, but it's really cool, because so when I moved to my other the new house, we need a fence, and the guy that I use for fencing and concrete, he's always asking me about websites and how he's going to increase SEO, and he pays some, some company, a bunch of money to handle his website. So instead, I will say, well, I'll just create, what if I create a directory site for you, for fencing companies in this area, and you're always on top, and I optimize the SEO on it, so we're when they look for fencing companies near me. You come, it comes up on there, and you're the number one every single time. And I can, you know, use web a door, which, if you guys remember from the LLC class couple last week, webador is where you can pay, like, five, no, I was like $15 a year for the URL for the domain, and you can deploy it to that, and then there you go.

Unknown Speaker  28:33
Let me see.

Speaker 1  28:48
But yeah, and so I'll see if I can get a free fence out of them for creating the website. And it takes me a half hour using this tool to create that website. It's crazy. That's the power of just that's the power of information. Just knowing things before other people know them is so huge, so huge. Yeah, I don't know why it's not coming up. It might just be down, but yeah, I was hoping to show you guys,

Speaker 2  29:24
I listened to a podcast of the founder of this tool. The replied, and he mentioned that now a lot of users who's using this AI tool making a lot of money, like they basically monetizing all this websites.

Speaker 1  29:40
Yeah, yeah, because you're doing the same thing. So if this, if I were to write this site on my own, it's going to take me a couple days where, right here, it's a passable site. You know, if you want some high, highly customized, something or other, you know, that's different. You're going to have to get into the nitty gritty. But just your. General site that most people need

Unknown Speaker  30:03
you don't Yeah, I mean, this will work for it.

Unknown Speaker  30:08
Oh, there we go. That's probably what I needed.

Speaker 1  30:18
And it'll ask you questions to help you too, like, is the deployment. Did you see it? Is it visible to you? And then it'll look and diagnose its own errors and fix them itself. It's almost creepy how good it is. And I found this on a late night, you know, scroll through tick tock, probably that same founder, probably his, you know, his tick tock, but, yeah, server, is running. Let's wait for additional so it's diagnosing itself to see if there's any problems.

Unknown Speaker  31:18
But, yeah, pretty cool

Speaker 1  31:30
and you can tinker with it for free. So you can get replit. You can sign up for it, and you can say, create a website for wholesaling real estate, and that has blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and it'll come up and it'll give you what, what's there. And okay, there we go.

Speaker 3  31:55
What's funny is you say that, and one of the guys that joined our community messaged me the other night, and he actually put together a whole selling app that does a lot of analytical stuff in the whole selling sector. And a guy paid, well, he asked him to make it, but then didn't finish paying him for it, and he sent it over to me the other day to kind of look through it and see if it would be something that I would want to, you know, possibly take on from him. And it was, it was pretty awesome. Just put in an address. It runs comps. It runs all the kind of offers that you would put in for the wholesale. It was some pretty good

Speaker 1  32:34
stuff, nice, yeah, and I would not be surprised if that was an AI somewhere, at least early in the process, and they refined it so like so this literally took me less than an hour, and I even had to generate the images and everything, right? So it just comes up.

Unknown Speaker  32:54
You can click on here.

Speaker 1  32:57
You see, you know, 48 five star reviews, whatever. It's got all the contact information, phone number for the business, like get a free quote, all of that stuff. You can go right to the website, the actual website, and didn't cost me anything.

Unknown Speaker  33:18
You know, it's got these other business,

Speaker 1  33:22
local businesses here, but it's funny because their stuff doesn't work, so you can't, you can't call them or do anything with it, so, so it's only going to be good for whoever wants it. But yeah, I mean, and that was totally free. So yeah, sorry. I know that was a tangent, but I'm excited about stuff like that. That's great. Yeah, and it deploys it. It doesn't just, you know, create it for you, and then you have to do something weird, like it'll deploy it. And if you go get a domain, you can tell it, deploy it to this domain, and it will ask you questions, because you have to have a certificate, you have to prove that you are the owner of that domain. There's some things you have to do, but it'll walk you through that process, step by step by step, and then at the end of that, you have, you know what best lawn care directory in missouri.com. Whatever it is that you choose, like a legit, a legit one that's always out there, hosted for $15 a year. And and when it comes to marketing, you can't beat something that costs $15 a year. Google ads. Right now, I'm running hardcore Google ads for like $90 a day for that business. That's, that's what they're set to to be at the top of the list, because we're scaling up. So, yep, Will. Does anybody else have any questions? So next week, I guess we'll be back in to the business acquisition. We'll be doing that again. Got some stuff to share, I was hoping so I'm going to go ahead and end this and we'll just talk.
