Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody, it's Shane with money Language Academy, and we're getting ready to start the mentorship portion of the night. It is Thursday, July 31 at 2025 and what I thought I would do first is somebody put a a business asking a question about if it's a good deal. So I thought maybe we would start with that, just to kind of kick things off. So this is Rolando, this deal out here. See what we got. Okay, it's in Illinois, profitable home health care. The cash flow is 382

Unknown Speaker  00:44
Shane, can you share your share?

Speaker 1  00:46
Oh, it's not. It didn't share. Oh, I didn't click the button. Sorry, there we go. Does everybody see it? Yeah. Okay, so cash flow is 382

Unknown Speaker  00:58
the asking price is 274

Unknown Speaker  01:02
Well, that's a red flag. So

Speaker 1  01:07
generally, this is not real, okay, when we talked about this a little bit at the beginning, when we're just kind of, you know, hanging out before this started, but like when you see a situation like this, where the cash flow is higher than the asking price. A lot of times it's actually a franchise where they say, Okay, this is a home health care franchise. And what they'll do is they'll take the highest cash flow of any of their franchisees, and then they'll put the lowest asking price of the base level of that franchise. So they're not actually lying about it, but it's not a realistic situation. They're saying, Hey, this is the potential that you can make, and this is the potential that you could pay. Maybe you could be the best one you know ever. And you can make this much money, that's one that's one option. Sometimes it's a grimy broker that's just trying to get information. So he'll he'll pump up numbers and just put false numbers out there to get you to say, hey, I'm interested. Blah, blah, blah, he might funnel you to a different business where the numbers aren't as good, that's in a similar industry, or just put you in a database that he then sells to other brokers or wherever, as somebody that's potentially wants to buy a business. So I just as a rule, I stay away from these types of businesses for that reason. Because realistically, it's just not, it's just not going to happen. I mean, no, no one, no one in the right mind, is going to sell a business that's making this much money for that price, if it's a for sale by owner, maybe a marketplace, there's a possibility, but there's always a catch. Always a catch.

Speaker 2  03:08
Okay, yeah, I was, I didn't know what to make of those numbers. That's why I posted it, because I was like, Okay, let's see if somebody finds a red flag here that I'm just not aware of.

Speaker 1  03:18
Yeah. I mean, I love the industry. I love the idea of that. I mean, it's, it's great, and it's got five employees and all that stuff. But yeah, I, I bet it's, it's my, my hunch would be, the franchise is probably, what did you reach out?

Speaker 2  03:36
I did, and I, I scheduled a call with a broker, and it's next Tuesday. So, but he said, you know, what is it you're looking for? And so I listed a whole bunch of questions, like, show me the financials. Why is this guy selling? You know, how do you explain the price? You know, all those other stuff. So, yeah,

Speaker 1  03:55
yeah, grill them. They can't hurt, right, right, right? I mean, what's the worst thing you can do is they get your phone, your email address. Whoop. You know, who cares? But, yeah, I mean, it can't hurt, if nothing else, you know, it's another contact in the business world that sells business because they're obviously a business broker. Even though they might not be a good one, it might be a grimy one, they're still a business broker. Yeah.

Speaker 3  04:23
And also want to say there is no name to the business, so it's just a generic thing, like I am in a healthcare system. And a lot of these people, knowing that the healthcare is very popular, they just put something home, health, something nursing, thing, you know, just to attract you, like, I have seen many of those, and I kind of know how to spot them from afar, maybe because I'm in the industry, like there's no name, that's a red flag too, you know, because when there's a specific name, you can look up the name, you can look up that company before you even, you know, get to meet them or anything. On negotiating.

Speaker 1  05:01
But that is, it is quite common, though, for listings to not have the actual business name and the address. The last business I bought, it was just like this. It just had a generic little image, stock image right there, and it said, auto repair shop. That's it, because they don't, you know, they don't want their employees to know and find out that the business is getting sold, and they just move on and, you know, they quit and go to a different job because they're afraid they'll get fired. So it's, it's pretty common for, especially small businesses, you know, under, you know, a million something like that that have 510, you know, 1015 employees to not actually share that with the employees that you know. They don't want them to know.

Speaker 3  05:51
I didn't know that. I've been skipping something like that.

Unknown Speaker  05:55
Yeah, yeah, it's pretty common.

Speaker 1  05:57
Okay, good to know. Um, yeah, Aaron, if you have one, if you put the link in the on the chat, I'll pull it up. We can look at it. Got

Unknown Speaker  06:22
it some smog and exhaust. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  06:25
so let's look at it. 2002

Speaker 1  06:28
that's awesome. You know, it's been around for well over 20 years. Asking price, it's, it's a smaller business. That's cool. So our times three that that holds true, right? 85 times three is is greater than 225. Okay, turn key, four employees. That's a little bit scary, unless you're willing to, you know if you're, if you're available to fill in if somebody's not there, or somebody quits, or whatever. So they own the real estate, so you'd have to pay them, you know, pay the lease two weeks training. They're retiring, yeah. I mean, other than the amount of employees, looks pretty good. And I definitely love this industry, you know, anything that's smog regulations, and in California, that's not going away. I mean, they're going to, they're going to stay on that. The only thing I would that I would be concerned about is, what kind of certification do you need for smog in, you know, to do smog testing in California? Because I'm not aware. You definitely want to look into that. If just the technicians, if they can be smog certified and you don't have to be, then there you go, which is same way it is for most auto repair where you know they can be certified to do inspections and smog tests and everything, but the owner doesn't have to be. Yeah. I like it, okay?

Speaker 4  08:02
Yeah, I thought it looked good, too. And then I was looking at the number of employees, and I was like, yeah, that is not that many. And then I talked to the owner, and he talked my ear off about his health not being good, and wanted to just smell it, but it sounds like he was, he's been able to be absent for a while, but sales definitely declined when he wasn't around, because he was saying, if the boss isn't around, and people just start slacking, and that's what happened. So the the gross revenue was from, I think, two years ago and last year was even lower, you know, maybe three something. So, okay,

Unknown Speaker  08:44
so it is declining,

Speaker 1  08:47
yeah, okay, well, that's a negotiating tool, if nothing else. If, you know, he needs cameras. He needs a way to keep his his employees accountable, if he's paying them they, you know, yeah, so there, it's very possible that you would have the same problems unless you're willing to be there. So just just be aware that you'd have to come in and change that culture a little bit. Maybe even have to fire somebody just to if they're not working, you know, that's just, you know, hostage kind of thing.

Speaker 4  09:26
And he was saying he had to do that, yes, yeah, for not not doing their job. Just fire him immediately.

Speaker 1  09:32
Yeah? But in general, I Yeah. I like this.

Unknown Speaker  09:35
Is it close to your house?

Speaker 4  09:39
Yeah, I stopped by. I talked to him in person.

Speaker 1  09:46
So, oh, so it's for sale by owner. Yeah, wow, okay, yeah, I would definitely, I would. I would want financials, and I would probably, if this was something I was interested in, I would, I would even. You thinking loi at this point, just to get it locked in, you know, you're, you're not bound on LOI. It's, you can put an LOI in and then just get out at any point.

Speaker 4  10:09
So, so yeah, my, my next question, I was like, I should review some of the other videos. Is, you know, I don't have, you know, LLC for, for buying businesses or anything yet, going to shoot an LOI under my own name for now?

Speaker 1  10:25
Yeah, yeah. You don't necessarily have to do it in the LLC name. Yeah, you don't. You don't have to. You can put it. It's going to make you look more legitimate if you put it in the LLC name. But you don't have to, especially if he's a motivated seller. Okay, but you're gonna want if, if you get in there and you're liking the numbers, you you're gonna want to, you know, go ahead and create an LLC at that point.

Speaker 4  10:56
But okay, and then so it would be do an LOI, and then ask him to send me an NDA and and the financials.

Speaker 1  11:06
Well, if he, if he doesn't care about the NDA, I mean, I wouldn't request an NDA. I would just, no, I would like to see, but Well, I mean, even before the loi, I would want to see you. Want to see the three years of tax returns, three years of P and l's and the year to date statement. So before I go through trouble of an LOI, I want to see those things first, because you want to know that what these numbers say are legit once you if they are legit. So right now, you're determining if these numbers are true. Is it a good deal for me? And if that answer is yes, and then you get the financials, and the financials still support those numbers, then there's no reason not to do an LOI other than fear.

Unknown Speaker  11:50
Okay, so you said three years of financial statements,

Speaker 1  11:54
yeah, three of profit and loss statements, three years of tax returns, and then the year to date statement, I any year to date. Statement is just the current year's profit and loss statement. That's all it is.

Speaker 5  12:12
Okay? Thanks, Shane. I have a question. Okay, on this one, so the real estate. Part of this one confuses me. It says it's a million dollars and that it's owned. So when you're purchasing this for the 225,000 I'm assuming that doesn't include the owned real estate. So are you leasing it back from the owner?

Speaker 1  12:36
Or how does that work? Yeah. So, so I assume that, you know, yeah, they so they actually own it, and it's not included. So they'll generally put an asterisk up there, and they'll, they'll say the, you know, whatever the appraised value is. So they do that in case maybe you want to make a deal for the whole thing, so you're kind of aware of what it would take to get the whole thing. But yeah, so they're going to lease it to you. So a savvy owner is leasing from themselves right now. So a really smart owner that wants to be prepared to sell and to have reduced tax burden, even if they own the property, they'll put that property in LLC name, and then their LLC that has the business there, will pay the other one, even though it's just them transferring their own money from one account to another. They'll do that just for the paper trail. So that way the EBITDA, excuse me, the cash flow will actually be correct and would match what you would be doing when you lease the property. Gotcha.

Speaker 5  13:46
So when you request the three years of financials, you should see it as a line item. Of them renting it essentially from themselves.

Speaker 1  13:54
Well, hopefully you see that if you don't just know that, you're going to have to factor in whatever that lease is going to be to and pull that out of your cash flow. Okay, if they don't already have that factored in, you have to pull that out. Because right now I can, I can tell, because the EBITDA, which is the earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization is, is much higher, so they probably have payments on the real estate, it would be my guess. Okay, is it? You know, you got 40 grand difference? That's probably what they're paying a year for the mortgage. Okay? Thank you.

Speaker 4  14:38
Yeah, they know he, that he owns the building, and he that's separately. He's willing to sell that. And also he has, like, a dealership. He sells cars also on his lot, and, okay, as a dealership license, and he's willing to sell that separately as well.

Speaker 1  14:52
So nice, okay, he's willing to sell the dealership or the license,

Speaker 4  14:58
the life the license, it's just. It's a very small property. There's, you know, not too many spots for cars, but that's, that's another thing he does on the side.

Unknown Speaker  15:08
Okay, he's a go getter. I like it,

Speaker 4  15:12
but, yeah, I was, I was curious if, yeah, that that monthly payment, or whatever he's paying rent, like, Could he be, is that in the financial statement, and if someone purchases this business, does the rent change from what?

Speaker 1  15:26
Well, I mean, that's part of your negotiation process. When you get into your loi, right? You and you start, you're you get serious about it. You're like, Okay, I think this is going to be a go. Then you start negotiating the lease, and what the lease is going to be when you get to the purchase agreement phase. The lease is part of that purchase agreement. So you're saying, Okay, I'm agreeing to pay this much money, this much down whatever, whatever your terms are. And also, here's Attachment A which is the lease agreement, and it's going to be $2,000 a month for for five years, whatever, whatever it is, but that's part of the deal. No bank is going to finance you without that lease agreement. They need to know what all of your overhead is going to be before you get in there.

Speaker 4  16:16
Yeah, that's, that's, that's, that was the case with that current business loan. They want to know. And they Yeah, and if you have a loan, they also might want it to potentially,

Unknown Speaker  16:29
you'll be able to seize the assets if you stop pangolin.

Speaker 1  16:32
Yep, yep. They want to know about, about all of that.

Unknown Speaker  16:39
Okay, let's see Keith put

Speaker 6  16:41
one right here. Last question regarding this, okay, have you ever used SBA seven, eight to purchase a real estate and is it worth it? Like I was wondering, since the term is not 10 years, right? It's longer, the payment is going to be lower, right? So what if even it's less than a lease, yeah, does it make sense to do that way?

Speaker 1  17:06
Or it does. Sometimes it depends on the deal, right? And the quality of the real estate, but, but, yeah, moving that time horizon out from 10 to 25, or 30 years is can be a game changer. It can take, it can take a deal that's just okay and make it awesome. But it just, it depends, you know, it depends on a lot of things. One, so if it's a good quality play property, is there the ability to actually have an additional revenue stream because you own it? You know, you should be taking advantage of the ownership of that. If it's just strictly to support the business, maybe it's not worth it, you know. But if there's possibilities, it's in a good spot and good location where you think that is an up and coming part of the city, where it's going to be worth a lot more in 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  18:00
But it's very situational. Very situational.

Speaker 1  18:06
Okay, thanks. Okay, oh, another smog, Okay,

Unknown Speaker  18:15
this one's in Orange County.

Speaker 1  18:19
This one's from Keith. So it's got the cash flow is 84 asking price is really low. That's, geez, that's less than two on the multiple. Yeah, they've got the rent there. It's kind of a small building. It's like 900 square feet, okay, and you don't know how long it's been there.

Speaker 7  18:41
I can, I can look, I haven't talked to one yet, but I meant you can see the business name. I can look it up.

Speaker 1  18:47
Okay. Oh, the business actual names here. Oh, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  18:53
it's pretty funny. Actually,

Speaker 1  19:02
see if I can, I think, because I'm sharing my screen. Oh, there we go. HB, smog, I think is what it says, Yeah, phone number and everything. Okay, so STAR Certified turnkey 15k they've been

Speaker 7  19:32
around for at least 10 years. I'm looking at Yelp reviews. They go back to 2013

Speaker 1  19:38
net income is 6.5 to 7.5

Unknown Speaker  19:45
short business hours for six days a week,

Speaker 1  19:50
eight to five. That seems like normal business hours to me. Yeah, the lease is good till 2030 so it's got least five years.

Unknown Speaker  20:02
No, employees,

Unknown Speaker  20:04
yes, that's the one issue,

Speaker 1  20:06
and the owner is a mechanic, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  20:16
yeah. I mean,

Speaker 1  20:19
I don't know. I don't are they do? I don't know if they're fixing anything, or are they just doing smog checks. I would assume that most places like this will do a smog check and say, Hey, you don't pass. You need to make these changes to pass, and then that big portion of their income is going to come from the repair, yeah, modification, yeah.

Speaker 7  20:39
So strong tricks only, yeah, I can, I can ask the broker. I mean, would you just go directly to the broker, or, since you have the number, would you try and

Speaker 1  20:46
go to the owner? Yeah, I would, I would, I would work with the broker and look at the broker. Yeah, you don't, you don't want to, like, try to circumvent them, because the broker will be mad about that. You want to, yeah, let the broker do their job, and then, then you, you know, let them introduce you to the owner gotcha, unless they're just being a jerk, and we just absolutely won't that's different. Yeah, yeah, okay, yeah.

Speaker 7  21:11
Since you've said this, I would need to probably hire like I would need to bring someone on or hire them then, and it's going to cut into my cash flow. But I need to hire someone, at least two people.

Speaker 1  21:22
Yeah, yeah. And I don't know about this broker right here, because it says art, which I guess is action, Realty, task holdings, makes no guarantees about the accuracy or completeness of this information. That's weird. You don't see that very often in these listings. And you definitely don't see someone, you know, someone put the phone number in the picture,

Unknown Speaker  21:45
yeah, yeah, that's true.

Unknown Speaker  21:53
That's interesting.

Unknown Speaker  21:54
But I mean, yeah, it's two weeks.

Speaker 1  22:01
Okay, so they want to switch to an auto repair instead. Okay, yeah, so he's a mechanic already. He knows he can make more money as a mechanic than he can doing the smog stuff.

Unknown Speaker  22:15
That makes sense. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  22:21
yeah, I don't trust Kevin. Kim Shane.

Unknown Speaker  22:33
I do like this business model, though, of the smog places,

Unknown Speaker  22:38
anything where you're

Speaker 1  22:40
you're doing something that people have to do every couple of years, or every time they buy a new car. Yeah, it's great. It's great. It's recession resistant. However, you also run the risk of, like the the government putting a cap on the price for it, so like, state vehicle inspections in Missouri, there $15 yeah, $15 I think. And that's it. You can't ever charge more than that. It takes about an hour to do it. So if you think you're paying someone, you're paying a technician $30 an hour to do a $15 job. Yeah, if there's nothing found with the car, then, you know, you're out that that money. But generally, there's something that needs to be repaired. You know, it doesn't pass inspection because of this or that, or whatever, but oftentimes there's nothing. And, you know, you just take the good with the bad. Yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  23:43
Okay, anybody got another one or any other questions?

Speaker 1  23:50
This is my most favorite thing to do. Look at look at these listings. It's a lot of fun. I

Unknown Speaker  24:03
anyway, okay. Do you got Willie,

Speaker 8  24:13
I actually had a question. Shane, so if I think I might have brought this up to in our last class, actually, or the one before. But if there's a a business where, so in this case, it's an it's a dessert shop, and it's been around for 10 years, I think it's cash flowing 160 they're asking like 380 everything looks good. The only issue is that, although it's only it's been around nine or 10 years, the current owner has only had it for a year or a year and a half, and he owns other businesses, and the only reason he's selling is because the person that runs, that ran that business was a family. And burn. He's moving to Texas, so now he has nobody to manage it. But the issue is where it comes down to funding, because it was an asset sale. Now it really only has on paper, only has, like, a year and a half of a history. Is there any way around that?

Speaker 1  25:14
Or, yeah, I mean, a regular bank's not really going to care about that. They care about the numbers. And you still have, you still have the numbers from the previous years, right? Do they have those financials?

Speaker 8  25:29
Well, the broker just flat out told me, Well, I because I think they got to the point where, like, Fine, or how I was going to be financed, was brought up, and the broker, I brought up, you know, a loan SBA funding, they were just like, Oh, this isn't going to qualify. I was like, why not there? I was like, I qualified. And they're like, No, that's not you it's the business, you know, it's only been owned

Unknown Speaker  25:55
for a year and a half.

Speaker 1  25:57
I haven't I was talking about a bank, like, just a regular, like a regular bank, a regular bank will go around that will not, we'll see that, yeah, it changed hands. But you, if you that's why, if you still have the the financials, you can still use those at a regular bank. The SBA is not going to do it, because the EIN changed, right? It's a different tax return. It's a different business. But generally, a bank, you talk to the the actual, you know, loan officer at the bank, they'll still look at that stuff. You can get so like when you when it comes to deals like this, you can get a lot of leeway and massaging of the rules. With a local bank, with a regular person that you sit down and talk to, you can get so much more done. That's where you get the, you know, the non collateral based loans. And even with you have to bring a higher down payment. You have to bring, like, 20%

Speaker 8  26:54
Yeah, I was gonna say, I think that was one thing that we mentioned. It was there anything else, like with a traditional loan, that you don't get as many benefits, as opposed to, like an SBA

Speaker 1  27:04
loan for Well, I mean, with a regular loan, you generally get a lower interest rate. The only downfall is that you have to pay a higher down payment, but you get a lower interest rate. You You can get deals like this push through you generally, because you're bringing a higher down payment, the collateral isn't as important, because their risk is less,

Unknown Speaker  27:29
and you can close in a week or two,

Speaker 8  27:33
really, okay? And also, the they did mention that the owner was open to owner financing, and that was, like, completely negotiable. They said it just depends on the buyer. Like, they're not in a hurry to, you know, sell it, but they're also not trying to have it sit for a while. So if, if owner financing is needed, they said that they're willing to, you know, put some so would you, would you say it'd be smart to structure that and partially owner financing and that traditional loan,

Unknown Speaker  28:03
yeah, 100%

Speaker 1  28:06
seller financing. That's even better. You know, you just give the down payment. If you can give the down payment to the owner instead of to the bank, and you don't have to go through a bank, yeah? That's great.

Speaker 8  28:17
Yeah, you know, yeah, no, I think I brought it up. They said they wouldn't, they wouldn't even do like 70 So, but, I mean, if they could do any amount that would be, that would be helpful, because that would take off from what I would be putting down, wouldn't it?

Speaker 1  28:31
So they said they would not do 70.

Speaker 8  28:34
No, they said they wouldn't, like, really do anything past, like, they wouldn't do anything past like 70 or 60% I think they said, like, right now they're willing to do, like, 50,

Speaker 1  28:45
okay, well, yeah, so you can, you can go to a bank and you can get 50% so say it's 300 you can get a loan from 150 you know, and put 30,000 down on that loan. So you would be, you, you'd be bringing, essentially, getting a loan for 120 Okay, bring the other 30, and there you go. There's half of it, and then you can do the rest. Seller finance to them. Okay, thank you. I mean, I just, I just did that not long ago for inventory, where it's $150,000 and I $30,000 down. And then did the rest, seller finance. So for 325 total. So I seller finance, 175 I brought 150 cash, which was 120 from a bank, and 30 out of pocket, and got inventory the same, same kind of deal. And I've been working with this banker long enough that I told him about the deal. I sent him the numbers, and he had the money transferred to my account. The next day, it was a Friday. By Monday afternoon, it was. There. So I guess it was over the weekend. But next business day, Aaron asked the asking price should typically be three times the yearly cash flow. If it's making 100,008 per year, the asking price should be,

Unknown Speaker  30:17
well, it should be 300 at the minimum.

Speaker 1  30:21
So if it's if, yeah, 300 at the maximum, yeah, I said that the wrong way. So, so if you know that cash flow times three is the minimum asking price you should pay, the reason for that is because when you put it you analyze those numbers, IT services the debt and allows you to pay it off soon, so you can or you can service the debt and then still have plenty of cash flow at those multiples. Yeah, if it's 250 if it's 100 cash flow, and they're asking 250 even better.

Speaker 4  30:59
Yeah, I put the numbers into the calculator for the first time, those the DSCR. I don't know if I did everything. You know, 100% perfect, 2.7

Unknown Speaker  31:12
or something.

Speaker 1  31:14
Yeah, anything, just the DSCR. You want a higher, the highest number possible on the DSCR and you want that multiple to be the lowest possible number. That makes sense?

Unknown Speaker  31:28
Does that make sense? Yep, thank you. Great

Speaker 1  31:38
questions tonight. You never know. You never know if people are going to be here and ready to go. And this was a good one. I got everybody riled up with real estate riches. That works.

Unknown Speaker  31:51
I'm going to ruin this streak of good questions.

Unknown Speaker  31:56
Oh, shoot, go for it.

Speaker 9  31:57
Okay, so I clicked on this Facebook ad, and it was like, I'll teach you how to get funding to buy your your first business. And so this is what the guy's plan was. And he even started off with, like, if you have bad credit. And so he said, if you have bad credit, you can go online and get some personal loans that are like, high you know, high interest or high risk. I guess you can say, like people that lend out money even if you have bad credit. He said, get, like, you know, get $50,000 worth of these, these, like high risk loans because you have a bad credit score. And then you would take that $50,000 and go to chase and get a secured credit card. And then you take that, cash it out, and then you go to another bank, get another secured credit card, secured credit card, take that cash, go do it again somewhere else, and then you take that money, and then you go pay it off at your first bank. And then you take, then you get another credit card. You basically just go around the circle, like paying off all these secure credit cards that you keep taking out. And then you get real credit cards. He said, do that under your own personal name, and then get an LLC, and then go do the same thing, ring on, ring around Rosie again, and then get a second LLC and do it again. And so now you have three rounds of like this credit card stacking. So I don't know if it's genius or or a dumpster fire.

Speaker 1  33:25
Um, I mean, I think it would work. It's just the idea. The problem with getting personal loans is that you're on the hook for $50,000 of high interest debt. The thing with capital stacking is you might not get as much. But if you don't charge anything, you don't know anything, right? That's the difference. No matter what in this, if you mess it up, you have to pay back $50,000 of high interest loans. It's, I mean, I bet it does work and I but then at the end of all that, you get a bunch of funding, what are you going to, you know? I mean, you still have to have some asset that you're going to buy with it, you know. So that seems like a very long, drawn out process, yeah. I mean, how long does it take, months and months, and then, what if, at the end of that, you know, what if you found a business at the beginning of that process, is there enough time to where you can get all that done and then close on the business? I don't know. I just don't like the idea of all that high interest debt. That's why I love capital stacking, because you the only thing that you're risking is, you know, if you do it yourself, you're not really risking anything. If you have a company do it, you're risking possibly 10% and, you know, maybe some hard inquiries on your credit. That's it. Yeah, the juice has to be worth the squeeze. A lot of squeezing.

Speaker 9  34:59
It's a lot of going. Out. Yeah, for real. So it's funny, get your opinion on that, because I was like, Is this guy onto something, or is this just like, trying to put some things together?

Speaker 1  35:11
So I think it would work. I don't know why it wouldn't. I mean, because they're going to record those secured payments, so you'll have a history of paying it off. But the reason why he's saying you go get secured cards is because you want that separation from your personal credit to your the business credit so they don't see that $50,000 of high interest debt. Because they're going to figure that out. They're going to know exactly what's happening. So that's another issue there. I don't know. I any of that stuff that's going on your personal credit. It's bad news. Bad news.

Speaker 9  35:55
Yeah, all right, on. And now that situation was for people with bad credit, but he said, If you had good credit, you can go straight into the credit card stacking and not do the high interest personal loans.

Unknown Speaker  36:08
Yeah, you could always just fix your credit first.

Unknown Speaker  36:11
Yeah, still, still swinging the bat on that,

Unknown Speaker  36:14
yeah, yeah. Are you getting close?

Speaker 9  36:17
We're doing good. I mean, like I sent out those dispute letters for the school loans. And so I did a deal was so great, like the chat GBT did everything really well, and so going to get that 30 days, and then if I pay off my my own personal credit card, I had him buy new tires and and I went to Atlanta a couple months ago for that business networking thing, and so my credit card is maxed out, so that kind of lowered my score. But I know if I paid, I mean, I have money in my savings to pay off that credit card. If I wanted to, it would probably go up another 40 points, but the school loans is the biggest thing right now, so should take another 30 more days ish, so we'll see what happens. Yeah, nice. I'll pay off my credit card once that happens. So yeah, no rush or sooner, the better. Okay, progress.

Unknown Speaker  37:21
Okay, guys, this was a good one.

Speaker 1  37:25
Thanks everybody for showing up and the great questions. And Joe, you want to do that next week? You want to talk about the Apollo thing?

Speaker 9  37:35
Yeah, Apollo thing is really cool. I think be really great to find off market deals and, and I think you said it before or, or, you know, somewhere down the line, just that often.
