Speaker 1  00:02
Hey, Welcome to the Money Language Academy. I hope that you are excited and ready to start this journey. It's not going to be easy. There's a lot to learn. I'll be honest with you, but you're in the right place. So if, unlike my lazy dogs that you can see in the background, you're ready to to learn how to do this, how to acquire business, how to find a business, how to be a good real estate investor, not just a real estate investor, how to do general investing. If you're looking to get business funding and just all around the different avenues and ways that you can reach financial freedom, then you are absolutely in the right place. So what I want to do real quickly is kind of show you how things work in the community and guide you along to so that you know what to do. So you want to jump into the videos first, so let me share my screen so I can show you what I mean. So in the community, you will see it looks something like this, okay? And you know, you can start looking through the posts and see everything that's up to date and what everybody's talking about, different deals that people are working on. And then you want to go to the classroom. So inside this classroom, you're going to want to watch all of these videos to learn what your particular thing is that you want to learn, especially, you know, if it's business acquisition, that's a good place to start, you know, but dip into all of these, because no one of these is an island. Everything relates to the other. And then also the mentorship Q and A's. We, we drill down, live into some topics, and we, you know, people bring businesses that we analyze, live in these mentorship Q and A's. All those get recorded and put out there. They're a great source of information. We even talk about AI tools and all kinds of stuff. And then some of the success stories from people in the community that have already closed on a business. You can find those here. The next thing I want to talk to you about is the resource bundle. The Resource bundle, which you can either get to it right here, if you can see this, that that link, or you can open up this pinned message, this pinned post that has the resource bundle. This will take you to the Google Drive that has everything in there that you need for the classes. And to start this journey, it's so many analyzation tools. You can have all this stuff. I don't care what you do with it, but what you need to do is you just download all of these. So whatever you want, you can, you can download it to your computer and then use it as you please. So if you have any questions, or, you know, you're just you're you're lost, or you have a deal that you want to go over, you know, bring them to the community. Every Thursday night at eight Central, there will be a live class. And you can get to that live class, I guess I stopped the screen share a little too soon. You can get to that live class by in the community. If we come over here, you'll see that if we go back where we were to the school at the top there, you know, on the day of there'll be this link right here, the mentorship class, and then the calendar. You can see that it's scheduled for every Thursday night at eight Central. So you can just get there directly from here. You click that link, it'll take you exactly where you need to go. So I look forward to seeing you in in those live classes. And like I said, if you have any questions, feel free to DM me if you're looking to get funding or anything like that, just just let me know, and I'll help you however I can. So I'm excited to get this started. And again, welcome to the academy, and let's do this.
