Speaker 1  00:00
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It's Thursday, December 4, and we're getting ready to start the mentorship portion the Q and A. We just talked about which businesses require licenses. And we'll just get into whatever, whatever people want to get into. What do you got the kind of questions, George, you find a new restaurant? Another one?

Speaker 2  00:25
No, not right now. Okay, kind of looking more into different types of businesses. I really don't want to do a restaurant. It's more like the family that wants one, but I think more recession resistant would probably be better. I do have three listings I'd like you to look at if you could Okay. Each one has like different questions, but I'll just get them as you go. I

Unknown Speaker  01:10
did you send them? Oh, yeah, they're in the chat.

Unknown Speaker  01:14
Okay, there we go. I see it. Mm,

Speaker 2  01:39
good answer. Roofing. I know you're looking for a roofing company as well. I believe, um, are you looking for residential or commercial, either one?

Speaker 1  01:57
I mean, ideally it would be one that did both. But that might be a tall ask, you know, a big ask. I don't know. My problem is, everyone that I found is the the owner is working 4050, hours a week. You know, they're, they're the ones that are doing the bulk of the work, and they leave, and the business would struggle. But this is a bigger one, though, this one might be a little different. How many employees does it say?

Unknown Speaker  02:31
Doesn't Okay?

Speaker 1  02:34
Well, let's just go through this. So we'll call it. It's a million, basically in in cash flow started in 2017 the ratio is good there. It's actually a little under priced.

Speaker 2  02:46
Possibly it's probably going down. Every time I see them listed below three, it's like slightly declining revenue. Okay, it is Florida. You know, there's always hurricanes. We always in your roofs,

Speaker 1  03:03
right, right? Hurricanes, any kind of storms. You know, this is a insurance payoff industry, which is awesome, supported by a small capable in house team subcontractors and well documented systems. Yeah. Hmm, so, I mean, they have a CRM, and they're, they have, does it say how much equipment,

Unknown Speaker  03:29
no

Unknown Speaker  03:39
commercial building. Okay.

Speaker 1  03:43
I mean, first glance, it looks pretty good. I have you reached out.

Speaker 2  03:51
I inquired earlier today. I'm just waiting for them to send me the NDA,

Speaker 1  03:56
flexible, negotiable, with paid consulting support possible and retirement. I mean it, it checks all the boxes that we're looking for. It's not bad, not bad.

Speaker 2  04:08
And with this one, it kind of goes back to the lesson today. I saw you put in their long term contracts, but looking at like the employment contracts in your resource bundle, they can break it with like 30 days notice, right? So, yeah, in a long term contract, what, how would I like amend that? Would it be like three months? Would it be non breakable? Yeah?

Speaker 1  04:31
I mean, you could just do an unbreakable for two years if you wanted to. I just, I find that people are hesitant to just completely be backed into a corner, you know, for two years that it's a tough sell, you know, because they don't really know you when they're signing this contract. So it's a lot, it's expecting a lot out of a person. Mm. Hmm, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  05:10
Could I ask a question on this one? Sure,

Speaker 3  05:13
so this lists the actual commercial building as a part of the package price. Do you typically split that out and get, you know, the value of the real estate removed from the value of the business?

Speaker 1  05:29
Yeah, so and does it say it's included? No, I don't think it's included. Yeah, usually they say not included.

Speaker 3  05:39
Oh, it says available for lease or purchase, I have a tendency to I read what's in a parentheses.

Speaker 1  05:44
Evidently, no, yeah, that's it's a good question, though. So how if it was included you? So what I do is I evaluate it separately. I evaluate the business based on the cash flow by itself. And I want the business to still be a good deal, and then if the business is good deal and meets all the the financial benchmarks, then I'll, I'll analyze it with the real estate included. So when you put the real estate in there, you know that your amortization period goes from 10 to generally 25 to 30, because it's real estate included. So if the numbers still work with that real estate, then, yeah. But you you want to do both, you know, first the business and then put them together and see what you got,

Speaker 3  06:30
gotcha and was roofing on your list tonight as one that requires a certification.

Speaker 1  06:38
It was a possible certification depending on the state possible, yeah, okay, gotcha. Well, I know it was a possible, like an employee could be not the the owner. Gotcha, yeah, okay, thank

Unknown Speaker  06:57
you. Oh yeah, there's like two men.

Speaker 1  07:01
Ernie says, look at the reviews. Oh, wait, no, that's the last one that was from last week.

Unknown Speaker  07:08
Let's forget about that. Okay, let's see this one.

Unknown Speaker  07:19
Contractor and architect,

Speaker 1  07:24
they want so much money for it that they're not going to disclose it.

Speaker 2  07:29
They're probably taking offers, you know, kind of more, but maybe not this particular listing, just the like the general field of general contracting.

Unknown Speaker  07:41
Yeah, I like this one, though, because it has architectural for a minute.

Speaker 1  07:49
Yeah, okay, so how many employees and stuff to 18 employees? Wow, a nice building that they lease,

Unknown Speaker  08:05
sales, marketing program,

Unknown Speaker  08:11
retirement. So

Speaker 1  08:14
the concern with this one would be, is the is the owner, the architect, and then, when he's done then, then is there no architecture, you know? Does he not have anybody

Unknown Speaker  08:27
working with him as an architect?

Unknown Speaker  08:32
You have to find that out, sort of

Speaker 1  08:36
find a business development system that he's willing to teach new owners that results in 90% Yeah, that's sales.

Speaker 2  08:47
In the second paragraph, it says it has 9.5 million on the books. Does that essentially mean for the next year I'm like, good with work, like, that's going to be my revenue.

Speaker 1  08:59
Or, I would think, because, surely that's not accounts receivable, because accounts receivable generally would be included on the cash flow. So that's probably, they're probably saying, you know, recurring revenue of maintenance or upcoming jobs, builds, things like that.

Speaker 2  09:21
That would be my guess, gonna definitely affect, like, the valuation. Oh, yeah. So how would I kind of evaluate that's the plus, like, a percentage of the upcoming work?

Speaker 1  09:32
Or, I know you would just still not include that. I mean, it's, it's still, you know, that's, in the future, right? And that, just that, should give you more confidence in the how solid the business is moving forward, but it's still, you know, you're going to do a snapshot of what it is now and what it was last year and the year before, and you wouldn't include that. And, I mean, unless you wanted to get more aggressive with. Offer, you know, because you're more comfortable. But no, I mean, as far as I'm concerned, it's still, it's not money in the bank, not yet. Yeah. I mean, I like this one. I would, I would want to know about the licensing. You know how many architects they have, you know it has 18 employees, but it doesn't say how many of those are construction workers, how many of those are Foreman architects?

Unknown Speaker  10:31
Sales, finding out all of that,

Unknown Speaker  10:41
next to no marketing. I mean,

Speaker 1  10:47
if it really does have 25% margins, that's pretty good. It's not bad.

Unknown Speaker  10:58
Yeah. I mean, I like both

Speaker 2  10:59
of these. It's kind of just like the tariffs. I don't know how much that's gonna affect the cost of things needed for these, like, types of businesses, especially the next one, the steel manufacturing.

Unknown Speaker  11:11
Okay, let's look at that one.

Unknown Speaker  11:16
Yeah, this one will be heavily affected. I

Speaker 2  11:21
didn't know if this one would be hurt or help. Like, maybe if I buy, like, the raw iron and steel or whatever, like in America, and then it's like, manufactured and made into whatever they need locally. That's like, the benefit of having a tariff. Or if I'm having to import steel from wherever else to transform it, then I'm hit by the tariffs. I don't know which one it would be, right?

Speaker 1  11:50
Well, I mean, it's a little it's a little expensive by the multiple, but yeah, around 35

Speaker 2  11:58
years, my owner is always kind of unreasonably high a little bit, but also means they're kind of willing to budge a bit more. I hope.

Unknown Speaker  12:11
Okay, stealing aluminum.

Unknown Speaker  12:25
Hmm, 20,000 square foot facility.

Speaker 1  12:42
Sorry, I'm just reading through this included quite a bit of information, at least.

Speaker 2  12:48
Yeah, okay, and they're, they have like, a little PDF at the bottom of the like, graphs of revenue,

Unknown Speaker  12:53
okay, and 360,000

Speaker 1  12:56
Oh, it is included. Okay, well, that helps, because there that makes up for the expense. You know, was a little expensive, but if it's $360,000 in inventory of steel and iron, whatever they have laying around, that's that helps almost 500,000 in FF and E,

Speaker 2  13:21
11 employees. Yeah, I'm assuming there's a lot of machines and,

Unknown Speaker  13:29
hmm, and with revenues being up

Speaker 1  13:32
this year, I mean, the tariffs have been in effect for a while, so, hmm. I mean, they're probably just, I would want to see if they're passing those on to the consumer, and that, if that does not hurt,

Unknown Speaker  13:47
you know, revenue, then there you go.

Speaker 1  13:55
Possible seller financing, yeah. I mean, this hits all the marks,

Unknown Speaker  14:00
retire and travel? Yeah.

Speaker 1  14:04
I mean, this is a big business, obviously. And I don't you know that's a pretty hefty asking price, but it's nice. I like it. And that is that is recession resistant. I mean, they're selling, it says they're selling to a lot of AC companies,

Unknown Speaker  14:21
the aluminum products?

Speaker 1  14:25
Yeah, I don't, I don't see this taking too big of a dent, even if the economy downturns is my favorite one of the three. I think I'm always skeptical if they don't have an asking price or cash flow. Yeah, you know, I, I haven't had a lot of luck when I inquire on those businesses.

Speaker 2  14:47
When you're looking at, like these kind of like, bigger businesses, are you doing three time SD still, or do you kind of change it to EBITDA multiplier?

Speaker 1  14:57
Yeah, you generally use EBITDA. If it's if it's over, like a $1.6 million business, the ask price, then EBITDA is what you should use.

Speaker 2  15:09
What do you think a good starting number would be if I inquire and

Speaker 1  15:17
hmm, I know it's hard to say without seeing the finance and like, you know, I want to see the financials before I even throw any kind of number out there.

Speaker 2  15:27
They did put some in the PDF down there. Okay, so,

Speaker 1  15:33
oh yeah, I didn't sign in really quick. It's not a big deal.

Unknown Speaker  15:40
Well, I think in my

Speaker 2  15:44
let's put a link to the image. I don't know if it'll let you open it.

Unknown Speaker  15:49
Okay, well, and see so the EBITDA

Speaker 1  15:54
being less than the seller discretionary earnings tells me that so they're they're depreciating a lot of assets. So I wonder if they have a lot of equipment that they bought that they're able to depreciate and write off this year.

Unknown Speaker  16:14
Yeah, with the bonus depreciation? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:17
So I

Speaker 1  16:31
yeah, I would want to see what that is like. Why the large discrepancy there? But yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  16:45
but I do like it. I

Unknown Speaker  17:04
Okay, yeah.

Speaker 1  17:14
So the business owner owns the real estate themself, very important that he's the he or she is the type of person that you can get along with in the long term. Yeah.

Speaker 2  17:32
Have you ever bought a business like that, like, have you gotten, like, a very long term lease or anything?

Speaker 1  17:38
Yeah, so I won't buy one unless there is a pretty long term lease with a hard option to, you know, continue the lease. So, like, usually a, like, a fresh three year with a five year, you know, renewal. That's like, not really. So unless you violate the lease, they can't get out of it. And you set the price on that renewal. Generally you set, you can set it by the fair market value for class, whatever property in this area as determined by this and they have, like realtor associations in most cities, where you can go on their website and see what's the average in this zip code for per square foot for Class C light industrial buildings, you know, whatever the type of building is. And then you get that average per square foot, and you can say, we'll pay 90% of that. You know, 85% of whatever that number is in the in the when you read, renew the lease, so, but yeah, you want that, because you don't want things to go sour, especially if you're buying from an, you know, buying the business from the owner of the building, and they're going to still be around, kind of looking at you and judging what you're doing, because it's, yeah, this, this person has, you know, probably created it from scratch in 1983 and it's going to be difficult for them to watch what you what things you've changed. So it's very important that you you have that stuff ironclad.

Speaker 2  19:19
And last thing would be, I saw you made a post about an off market dermatology practice. Are you like friends with the owner, or is it just like someone off Tiktok that found you?

Unknown Speaker  19:29
Yeah, somebody reached out to me

Speaker 1  19:32
and wanting to sell it, and somebody reached out with another one too. It's in Las Vegas called court site.

Unknown Speaker  19:40
Let me show you guys that. So I don't know

Speaker 1  19:48
much about it, other than their, you know, they want to sell it now, that's the maybe it's not site.

Unknown Speaker  20:05
I this. Can't remember how it's spelled. I

Speaker 1  20:16
don't know, but I was gonna post about it too. And it's a gym, like a gemstone store in a mall somewhere, not really anything I know much about at all, but I mean, it's a touristy place, and people might like to go to Vegas and get some turquoise or something. I don't know. I don't know what people do with rocks, but it might be, it might be a decent business. I'm not sure, but I'll post

Speaker 3  20:40
about, is it the big gemstone place in Quartzsite, which is in Arizona. It's like, a huge it has a big show that, like, last for several weeks, but it's out in the middle of the desert.

Speaker 1  20:55
I don't think so. I think this was right in Vegas. Okay, it wasn't, that big of a place. Gotcha? Yeah, I can't, I don't

Speaker 3  21:05
know courtside hosts the Big Jim show. So I thought maybe it's the actual gem stone tent and

Unknown Speaker  21:14
everything out in Quartzsite, Arizona.

Speaker 1  21:22
Hmm? I don't know. I'll track it down. I'll go back and look at my messages, but I'll post about that one too, so you guys can at least check it out. It's another off market deal. I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  21:35
Leads are leads, right?

Speaker 1  21:41
Okay? Patience. Did you want to look at yours? Yes. Shane, okay, let me see. So if you we give people a little bit of background on this business, what what it is, and what, where you're at with it so far. Yeah. I did you say I should do that? Yeah, yeah, can you just just give people a little bit of background

Speaker 4  22:11
on it? Okay? And so I found this beauty supply shop, and it was sometime in the summer, and it's around my neighborhood. And the guy I walked in, and I realized he was closing, but then he had this sign and he posted it on a site for him to sell. It wasn't a popular site, so I was very interested, because a year before, I had actually thought about, hey, I would love beauty supply, because, you know, why not? So fast forward. This guy had requested, I believe it was $180,000

Unknown Speaker  22:53
at the time, and

Speaker 4  22:57
Shane and I, we looked in, looked at the numbers. Okay, it's not what it because, for some reason, his cost of good souls were extremely high, and we believe he was tweaking those things so he could pay less tax. That's what I personally believe. Because he kept telling me, oh, I can teach you the secret of the business now. I'm like, No, don't worry. I'm more interested in where I'm taking this to with my fiance, given the fact that he has background in this. So I walked away like Shane said, if things don't work out, be willing to walk away. So the last week of November, he reached out to me, like, hey, you know what? Still interested? I said, Yeah. Then he's like, Okay, now you can have this. Do you have $80,000 cash? You can have the beauty supply. Now, if you have 80,000 and you have your money ready, we could strike a day, and you can get this willing to sell it to you. However, you need to go get, make sure you get the list with the landlord, and when you get that, then we can, we can talk. And then I had few days to the end of November, and he's like, if you can get the list, well, maybe we shouldn't talk about this at all.

Unknown Speaker  24:27
So that's where we are. So

Unknown Speaker  24:29
you haven't talked to the landlord yet. I

Speaker 4  24:32
have been trying to reach the landlord. That's a whole nother different story.

Unknown Speaker  24:38
It turned out that the guy

Speaker 4  24:42
I don't know. He wasn't willing to pass the business on like he purchased it so many years ago. He believed he was trying to sell whatever and shut down the place. But then he decided to change his mind. Mind, which I believe it wasn't for my own interest, it was for his interest. Like, from what I can see today, I reached out to the landlord finally, like, couldn't get through. By the time I reached out, I got in touch with the property management manager. He was like some other person who is fixing the shop next to that shop is already in the talk about the space. I said, What? So when I came, was there anybody? He said, No, but at this point I don't know. He said, Well, I'll send you the documents so you can apply to the lease. He did that yesterday, and he said that yesterday, and the whole of today, I couldn't get hold of him again. He went like, he kind of ghosted me again, like I can't get hold of him. So it wasn't a circle where I know a few people who are like top in the place, and I reached out to a lady to see if, now she's like, Oh yeah, I know the actual person who, who knows kind of like the owner of the property, so I can make that happen for you, but you got to look at the numbers. And so the property belonged to a church, and I happen to know a lady who knows the daughter of the owner. So it's, it's a it's a whole long story. So at this point, I feel like the the guy was not very nice, because, like, if you want to sell a business and you want your business to continue, you should at least have some love for the business or something. But he was like, yeah, if you want it, do it for you. Don't do it for me. Like, he just just, like a cranky

Unknown Speaker  26:51
retiree or something,

Speaker 1  26:53
I don't know Sure. Well, I mean that you're gonna run into that quite a bit. Yeah, if things, if things were going the way they wanted them to in their personal life, then they wouldn't be selling a successful business, right, generally. So there's a lot of time. There's, it's, it's a bitter exit for them. So just, just remember that you have to be patient with them. So let's, let's think about this. So this is your year to date. This takes you through October, right? So if you didn't

Speaker 4  27:26
put November here, sorry, right, even at this last stage, you seem to still be hiding one or two things. I don't know what it is.

Speaker 1  27:34
Well, no, that's that's common. That's common. I mean, it takes a while to reconcile the books and get these statements from, generally, they come from QuickBooks, so, but we can do this is enough. So you got 10 months here. So if you take the net income divided by the 10 months, right? And that's that would be your average. So then you can, say, add a couple of months to it, you know, multiply it by two, that's what you get, and then add it to the original to nine.

Speaker 4  28:06
You're like, can you backtrack a little bit? What did you say?

Speaker 1  28:10
So what I yeah, what I did is I took, because this is, this is 10 months worth of income, I took that, that essentially 50,000 and divided it by 10, which means that it's a it averages about at least this year, it did about 5000 a month in net income. Okay, so then I just, I, I, I said, Well, what is that going to be, you know, for two more months, that's about 10,000 and add it. Added it to, you know, the October number there, the January through October there. So that says it makes it about approximately 60,000 for this year, you know. And I don't know, sometimes December is a good month, sometimes December is a bad month, depending on the business and weather, you just know. But Okay, so let's look at this. So this gives us

Unknown Speaker  29:01
trend data.

Speaker 1  29:04
Okay, so they had a bad year last year. It's trended down each year. So I would be a little suspicious about these numbers. You know, this seems like that's, that's kind of pumped up. I mean, what did they do differently? That? That would be some of the questions I would have, like, why are you doing so well this year, when you trended down almost 10,000 each, you know, each of the previous three years. Okay, but it looks like, so you're looking right here for, oh no, the net, the net property.

Speaker 4  29:45
That's an address that it didn't close there, okay, so we'll take that page out, okay,

Unknown Speaker  29:54
but let's look at, yeah.

Speaker 1  29:57
So okay. There's it, yep, trending down. This is what you're looking at. This net profit or loss

Unknown Speaker  30:07
for each of those. Yeah. So,

Unknown Speaker  30:11
I mean, the numbers are pretty close, right? That's 2736

Unknown Speaker  30:21
and 36 Well, that was 20.

Speaker 1  30:27
Well, this doesn't match that. What we saw down there was 36 this is 51 so you'd have to find out what, what that difference is to like, Why? Why is there, you know, 15,000 more

Unknown Speaker  30:42
on that net income for 2222

Speaker 1  30:45
as opposed to the tax, right? Because otherwise it'd be 3636

Unknown Speaker  30:50
so was the tax more? I didn't say that.

Speaker 1  30:53
I thought, yeah, the tax was 36 and that's what they showed as their profit in 2022

Speaker 2  31:00
jump in. I think it's because the PPP money, if you probably go above the to network, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  31:06
I think he did mention something.

Unknown Speaker  31:09
He talked about PPP, yeah, he did,

Unknown Speaker  31:13
like above the net income.

Speaker 1  31:16
Oh, yep, there it is. Okay, yeah, good eye.

Speaker 2  31:20
I think it's just the cost of business going up, the revenue is going up, but the other expenses go up in accordance with the general economy,

Speaker 4  31:31
which I think does what I think he manipulates to make the tax looks more.

Unknown Speaker  31:38
Yeah, I I don't know that this is kind of a,

Speaker 1  31:46
you know, it's not making a lot of money. Yeah, that's, that would be my, my concern like, how much time would you have to spend at this business for a potential of, you know, $30,000 in profit.

Speaker 4  32:00
So the thing is, they, what I was trying to do was these were like moms and pops, who waited for someone to come through, for them to sell anything, compared to like, you know, making this store, more digital and more like online. So there's the piece about the online piece being added, and there's a potential for growth there. I think that's where we really like capitalizing on this.

Speaker 1  32:42
Yeah, so what that's considered is blue sky, right? You're factoring blue sky into the deal. Blue Sky is the potential growth of the business, but all the number which is good. You want blue sky in a deal, but you don't want to have a lot of weight in the numbers because of blue sky, right? We're buying businesses that are profitable on day one, as long as things stay the same. So you have to plan for going into that business and things might not go up. Like, what happens if you go in that business and the most it's ever going to make is 30 a year? How? What does that what does that do for your financial situation? You know? And so how many? And then they're the husband and wife are both working in this business, right?

Speaker 4  33:29
Yeah, they're both working there. And the guy, the books don't look good, but the guy kept insisting, oh, it's a good business. You can make money. I'll treat you the internet. But I feel like he's pumping up, pumping up all his Cost of Goods Sold to be so expensive, I don't know, I feel like he's talking something. And I didn't take the address out there. So that's we're gonna cut this out of the video.

Unknown Speaker  33:54
Oh yeah, I'm sorry. So the,

Unknown Speaker  33:59
I mean, are, were they taking a salary

Speaker 4  34:08
schedule, see, and he also holding to the other part of his tax like he was holding to their life, his lawyer and everybody were fighting always, so Papa, it's also, this is all you get,

Speaker 1  34:25
yeah, and that's fine. You don't have to see the rest of his of their taxes

Speaker 4  34:30
to see what they didn't want me to see it. So, yeah,

Speaker 1  34:33
you've got the B and L and the schedule C. That's fine. That. I mean, that's what they reported to the IRS. But I don't see there's no wages here.

Speaker 4  34:42
There's no wages, yeah, there's no wages here. So that look odd, right?

Speaker 1  34:46
Well, that means that they're just doing, you know, owner draw they or, you know, they that there are no employees. So if you're going to hire someone, that's going to be a full. Expense and making 30,000 I mean, you're not going to be able to hire anybody with with that kind of profit. If you do, you would give them every bit of profit you get to manage that business, and you're talking about the loss of two employees, not just one, two people run that right now.

Speaker 4  35:18
So with the with the owners draw. How come that's not reflected on the P and L here?

Speaker 1  35:25
Well, it's not, I mean, they might just leave it in the account. They might not pull it out. I mean, it's, that's their money. That's seller. Discretionary earnings is essentially what when it's a disregarded entity like this, this, this, right here, this net income is considered, that's, that's what they're they're saying that the business made. That's their money. That's the owner's money right there, whether they take it out of the bank account, whether they give themselves, you know, a salary, or whatever. That's That's considered their their income. Okay?

Speaker 4  36:01
And since I don't have the rest of the task, I can't tell what it is, correct?

Speaker 1  36:09
No, I mean, you, you know, you know this, this is how much the business made. How was the business made? Okay, yeah, for these three years. And it's, you know, there's no room in there to hire someone. So if you're not willing to work there full time on your own, and you know, you'll be working there full time on your own for potentially, you know, $30,000 and maybe it grows. Maybe you could make it grow, but maybe it doesn't, okay, yeah, it's a lot of, it's a lot of risk, you know, it's only gonna cost you $80,000 which is a very cheap business, but it's a lot of risk for only make you know for for trading your current job for this job that doesn't pay Very well. I personally, I would pass, okay,

Unknown Speaker  37:22
all right, thank you. Anybody

Speaker 1  37:30
else have any questions? Business? Found anything?

Speaker 5  37:38
Shane, I have one that I'm looking at in Arizona. Okay, what you got? I, if you go to biz by sell and just put Arizona in, it's going to be probably the first listing that pops. Sorry, I don't have it up, because I'm on my phone because

Unknown Speaker  37:52
so it's, it's four make those, I think,

Unknown Speaker  37:55
Ooh, okay. Okay, so franchise.

Speaker 5  38:00
Then, which I'm not, you know, I've never had a franchise, but it's a package of, yeah, it's in Arizona. If you just search business in Arizona, it'll pop right up. It's that Mako listing right there. It's four of them. I think that fourth one down, there you go.

Unknown Speaker  38:22
I And it's absentee. It looks like it could be absentee.

Speaker 1  38:25
Owner, okay, it's pretty expensive. Is it high? I mean, yeah, I would expect to pay, you know, and you could probably negotiate down, but like more, like 1.7 somewhere around in there. But, you know, it's only been around for for five years to

Unknown Speaker  38:49
retirement. Okay,

Speaker 1  38:55
this guy's also, it's got some inventory, so that helps paint, and auto paint, especially is outrageously expensive. 35 employees, okay, see what it says. So are you close to these? Well, I guess you don't know where the location is.

Speaker 5  39:20
Yeah, they have the location, one's in Prescott, and three are in Phoenix, or two are in Phoenix, and one's in Tucson. So Tucson is three hour. All of those are within three to four hours for me, so they're a little bit longer. So let me tell you what's going on. I'm in Yuma, so it's pretty remote. We don't have a lot of listings popping up, so I'm kind of poaching our network of people with people I know, like, there's a cooling company here, an HVAC company that I know, that I've known the guy forever, and I know he wants to retire. So I'm trying to use my network to kind of like drop hints to people like, hey, this what we're looking for. But there's just not a lot in Yuma that's popping up. So I'm. Having to expand my area,

Unknown Speaker  40:04
unfortunately, okay,

Speaker 5  40:07
like the laundromats four and a half hours for me, that's why we gave it to a partner in flag to run.

Speaker 1  40:16
Okay? I mean, Mako, you know, they have a reputation. They're, I mean, they've been around for a long time, you know, better get Mako. You know, they have advertising. They're the kind of franchise that bring it brings credibility. They're going to have a lot of quality control, all the good equipment, the training, all of that stuff for one case, for employee, like all that's going to be there for you. I don't know what their franchise fees are like, though, but that would already be included in this, because that would have already been taken out. So that's just, that's part of it. But you know, what kind of guidelines do they have in general? But yeah, I mean, this is a, this is kind of cool, especially because, you know, with multiple locations, it's definitely absentee. Can't be all for, you know, all those places at once. So, and I don't know is Prescott, is that a pretty big city?

Speaker 5  41:16
It's okay. So what it is, it's the Phoenix elite by second houses in Prescott. It's like, so it's about an hour and a half from Phoenix, so it's, it's really, like, lucrative, like, everybody's just super rich. It's second homes. And, okay, it's not huge, but I don't know, I don't remember what the population is. It's, I mean, it's probably around 100,000 if I'm guessing, but it's, I mean, people got money. There they good. Okay,

Speaker 1  41:51
so there's co owners. It's not just a single owner. And one of the owners would be, was willing to be a operational manager. There's what I like about this one is there's a lot of options. There's a lot of stuff that's already in place. Mako will have systems. Mako will have everything like that is all figured out for you. They're going to have the full staff. Yeah, yeah. I mean this, this could potentially be a way to step into, I don't want to say an easy business, but one where every everything is all figured out for you said it, forget it, yeah, yeah. That's nice, you know. So then it would be just a matter of, you know, popping in every now and then, making sure that people are doing what they're supposed to do. But Mako is also, will also be doing that. So that helps, because, you know, they don't want a bad reputation either. So yeah, I like it. I do usually multiple locations like this

Unknown Speaker  43:02
with inventory, they're going to ask more for it.

Speaker 1  43:06
Usually, that's what you see. And you know, again, this is a good business because it's not just painting, it's it's auto body and collision, so insurance payments, that kind of stuff too. So, yeah, okay, I'm

Speaker 5  43:21
gonna ask for because it already went it went under contract once, and then popped out really fast, because I've been watching it, so I'm like, Hmm, wonder what happened. So I was thinking, after you look at it, I'm probably going to request info on it and do a little bit of due diligence on it.

Speaker 1  43:36
And now, Mako may have restrictions about people that are from outside of the industry. So maybe, if you don't have experience in an auto that might, that might be part of it too, because you know, they're going to have to approve you as well. Oh, interesting, okay, because you will be entering into a new contract, franchise contract with them. Yeah, okay, but I don't know I like I have never looked into a manco franchise, but wonderful. That's probably information that you could get from one of the franchise sites, where they just have all the franchises. You could just say, what does it take to let's do it. Let's just look. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  44:30
let's take together a makeover franchise.

Unknown Speaker  44:38
That would be another thing. So

Speaker 1  44:41
are they going to want you to pay franchise fees again, because you're a new owner, and that's dependent upon the the initial contract. So it's very important that you get all the information about Mako and what they require

Unknown Speaker  44:59
so they. They make them commit to

Unknown Speaker  45:02
multi unit agreements, interesting,

Speaker 1  45:10
and that there's another, you know, that might have hurt them, right there. You gotta have a 300,000 net worth, you know, 140,000 in cash. I have all that, okay? Because you might like a lot of places, and a lot of people probably don't have that. That might have been what got them. If I were to wager, I would say that probably the franchise requirements is what you know, made them have to bow out of the deal.

Speaker 5  45:41
Okay? Well, I just have a good feeling about it. I you know what I mean, like, it was like, the laundromat, the laundromat, I had a really good feeling about and this one just keeps popping back up into my mind. So I'm like, there's probably a reason I should just go down this road. And then it was pending, and then, boom, it popped back out yesterday. So I'm like, oh, Okey dokey.

Speaker 1  45:59
If this one was closer, I would have already inquired on it. Yeah, I like it. And I like, just like, make those in general, because they're everyone that I've ever been to is a good, clean, branded building waiting rooms, you know? I mean, it's the it's what you want, it's the type of place that I would go to if I was getting my car painted, yeah, mm hmm, yeah, me too. Okay.

Speaker 5  46:26
And then I have another question. There is one that's local here, that's for sale. It's a windshield place. How do you feel about windshield shops?

Unknown Speaker  46:34
Yep, great. I mean, it's,

Unknown Speaker  46:37
it's, it's

Speaker 1  46:40
the pros are, you know, do you have to have inspections in your state, car inspections

Speaker 5  46:46
for, like, our catalytic converters and stuff

Speaker 1  46:49
or what do you Yeah, but do they check for window cracks and things like that too?

Speaker 5  46:54
No, but you can get a fix it ticket. And in Arizona, you can't mess around with that, because it'll crack like, I just got a new car two, three weeks ago, and it got a little it had a little hit, and it's already spidering because the heat. So you can't, you can't, you know what I mean, you've got to get new windshields, no matter.

Unknown Speaker  47:12
Okay, so now with

Speaker 1  47:16
a lot of people are scared of windshields and and windshield replacement businesses right now, because the technology required is very expensive, so new cars are coming out now with the anti collision stuff, and it's called, like a DOS, is what it's called. You have to, you have to have some really intense software and machines to be able to put the windshield in and then get past the all of the computer stuff required to do so, and those the software to re up it and to, you know, get new licensing each year can be outrageous. So you would want to know, you know, what are they currently using, how, how new is it? How old is it, that kind of stuff. So those are the questions that you're looking for right there, because that's huge overhead. But otherwise, it's a great business. Is it mobile?

Unknown Speaker  48:13
I think it's, I think it's both, and they have one vehicle. It has 140,000

Unknown Speaker  48:18
miles on it. So it's, you know, it's done,

Unknown Speaker  48:21
yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  48:25
but yeah. Otherwise, I like, I like windshield repair businesses, for sure, but it's just got to find out about that technology. And every year, cars come out with more of that technology, and more and more and more, and they're fighting. Right now, the the big three is, is fighting to fighting against a bill, which is the, it's like, I forget what it's called, but essentially, it's like, Hey, you have to tell us how to fix these cars so regular people can fix the cars. And I have to go to dealerships all the time, and they're fighting hard against that. So I don't think, I don't think they'll be able to to win, but they're putting hundreds of millions.

Unknown Speaker  49:08
Wow, that's a little evil.

Speaker 1  49:12
Yeah, evil corporations. That's so they do, because they're making a ton of money on on repairs and forcing people to to go to the dealership to pay double for a repair that an independent shop could do. Had were they allowed to get the, you know, the software and the technology and the information?

Unknown Speaker  49:32
Yeah, wow. But, but I like this one. I like this one a lot.

Speaker 5  49:37
Yeah, okay, I'm sending an inquiry. I'll, I'll keep you posted. I might have, I might need some help on it. Okay, cool.

Speaker 2  49:46
All right. End of the general question, similar to the listing. Normally, when I inquire on like multi unit businesses, I normally see like the established data is like the oldest one. And then they'll open up more as the years go that are newer, still kind of growing. Maybe one or two is unprofitable. Do you normally just take that risk with the, you know, the newer ones, or do you try to carve it out?

Speaker 1  50:16
Yeah, I don't think it's the same, the same risk necessarily, as something, you know, like as three separate businesses. You know, like, if you were to buy them on on their own locations, merits, because you have the numbers for all three. So even if one of those is not doing well, all of all, all four of them together is still doing pretty good, you know, it's, it's still making close to 600,000 a year, mostly absentee. So, so yeah, and I'm sure that this is, and it says, it said in the franchise information that you have to commit to multi unit, you know. So they may have been forced to open those other ones, because that's what they do. They, you know, because Mako wants, wants you to seed more stores in more locations, because they get more fees. So if you just had one, you know, really profitable business, it's not going to scale as much as as it would if they force you to seed other other stores in other cities. So, yeah, no, it's not really the same because it's the same owner, the same systems repeated everywhere. It's not like a fresh, brand new business. The reason I say that, you know, you don't want to a business that hasn't, you know it hasn't been around for more than seven years, or five at minimum, is because you know, if it's brand new, like it could be on the verge of collapse, it's never been tested, you know.

Unknown Speaker  51:46
But this is different. It's a different situation. Value.

Speaker 2  51:54
Another quick question for elite, if you don't mind,

Unknown Speaker  51:58
yeah, lean, you still there? He's cooking.

Unknown Speaker  52:06
Yes, I'm here. I'm so sorry.

Unknown Speaker  52:09
Barbecue tomorrow with 50 people coming,

Speaker 2  52:12
yeah, oh, first, congrats on your closing for the laundromats. But, um, I did see you had an adjustment clause. Um, how did you kind of structure that I never thought about doing something like that, but it sounds like a great idea.

Speaker 5  52:28
Oh, my God, so it was our broker's idea. So the broker had originally sold that laundromat to Mimi, who we mama, who we bought it from, and when we went to go do do due diligence, all she had, literally, was like a monthly calendar book that every day had amounts on it for either credit card or cash or coin. And so in order for us, we wanted to do a 90 day close, and the broker wanted us to do a 45 day close. So we're like, no, because that's we're not going to have enough time to do coin collections and verify due diligence. And he's like, Well, he's like, What if we put this clause in the contract saying that post closing, we will hold 100,000 back in escrow, which was that business. We put 200,000 down, and then no 225, down, and 100,000 of it was seller financed in escrow. And in that 100,000 the clause stated that if they didn't, if the collections didn't match her numbers for the two months that she provided us in the two months that we did collections post close, then we could renegotiate that seller finance portion, and honestly, it was the broker. It was totally brilliant, because and he was pissed, she was pissed, and he was pissed. It was not a comfortable situation. When we went to renegotiate, they were very angry. He was very he was very angry. Oh yeah, they were pissed. They were like, That's not true. They tried to blame it on us and say it was because we took the artwork off the walls and that we changed the stove. And you know that she was an old lady that had, like, a TBI traumatic brain injury, and she, you know, she was a little spicy, we'll just say that, but we knew that. And we're like, we don't care. Like, we're not and she, when we first went out, we're like, we want a $50,000 price reduction, she came back and tried to negotiate to 25 and we're like, we're sorry we're not negotiating. Your numbers are off of what you told us. And then she tried to argue and say it was that she had never had a differential month that changed 15 to 25% like we were showing. So she forgot that she had sent me all of her book. So I did all these analysis is from 2020 until 2025 and showed exactly how many months we did have, 15% or 25% changes month to month and everything that she tried to argue, we completely had evidence she provided and and gave her the. With points. And so in the end, we just got that $51,000 price reduction, or 49,000 or something like that. It's one way or the other. But yeah, I think we only on 49,000 or something. I don't know. I put it on there.

Speaker 2  55:14
Nice. Yeah, you put 49 which is great. I'm assuming you had like, a lawyer draft the whole thing. Nope. Did you kind of,

Speaker 5  55:23
we did. We did it through the broker, and we did it through chat, G, P, T, because we're we're crazy, and that's like that. I don't suggest that, but all of us have, I have six companies already, and I manage, like, two districts of the government, and they have three launderettes, and my sister has nine companies. Like, we're pretty seasoned and entrepreneurs at this point, but we're, we're not seasoned at buying businesses that are already going we're seasoned at build ups. So anyways, I wouldn't give that advice to noobs, but we, we do a lot of Con and we help a lot of people with our companies, and do a lot of consult, like free consulting. We just help people with some

Speaker 2  56:03
I got you. Did you have, like, something in there that if you guys can't come to an agreement when renegotiating, you can kind of just unwind the deal, or just like, hoping they'll agree?

Speaker 5  56:16
Well, there was the agreement was ironclad in our favor, and we made sure of that there was no there. She had no recourse, and she signed it, you know, and she, you know, that was the deal. Because we had, we were doing a leap of faith, closing in 45 days, or we might have even closed. I found that Deal, deal mail, May 22 we closed July 12, so we put the offer in the 24th of May, and we were closed by the 12th, which is crazy, especially for a laundromat, because usually you fall in for three months and do coin collections, you just collect and you verify. But because she wanted to close like that, that was her deal. So yeah, no, it was the ironclad contract she could she could go to try to sue us, or do whatever she wanted, but everything she was arguing she had no point. In fact, we had evidence completely against her, and she'd actually stolen some stuff out of the building and done some some pretty shady stuff, not anything big. It was like soap and chop facts and like silly stuff, but it was, like a couple years worth of soap, and it was just dumb stuff. So, you know, we didn't, we tried to take the high road with her and be really cool, because she was throwing accusations and just making up making up stories honestly. But you know, that's business. It happens, and she's super pissed at us and whatever. She wouldn't even give us the login for the Facebook until we told her like we were we had to, like, negotiate in the end to get some logins, because she was just being extremely difficult.

Unknown Speaker  57:44
Yeah, and more common than you think. It's sad, but that

Speaker 5  57:47
happens, yeah? And whoever is in here looking at a restaurant, don't I have a restaurant. I've had a restaurant for eight years. I've been in the restaurant business my whole life. I'm Greek, that's what we do. It is extremely stressful, and the margins are shrinking with labor and food costs. So I don't suggest it, guys, we're we're thinking about exiting. We have a great restaurant. We make great money. It's funded a lot of my companies. But the margins are not what they used to be. My you know, my dad came to this country in the 70s, and had 26 restaurants. He was a restaurant flipper. And so I would just, I, I would shy away from it, from somebody that's in the industry. I would not and everybody's suffering. We have a shopping mall with three restaurants in there. All of our friends have restaurants, and everybody is just suffering. So I would not suggest it, guys, there's

Unknown Speaker  58:41
a reason why

Speaker 2  58:42
so many one looking at restaurants and everyone tells you the same thing, which is why I'm kind of shifting to, oh, just to update you. Shane, I did meet with that seller, the one that's like paying 100 grand. I mean, it's a great area, good building. The rents very high. I don't think we'll negotiate it down to 25 even from the 30, because the landlord's just very tough. You know, if I had one or two mil in the bank and I could go in and renovate that place, I think it'd be a great opportunity, but for a first business, I don't think it's something that would be suitable for me. Okay, yeah. I mean, a lot of equipment that needs to be replaced and definitely modernize the,

Unknown Speaker  59:29
you know, style of the building. And,

Speaker 1  59:34
yeah, it's, I've just never seen anything like that done. It's pretty, pretty wild.

Speaker 2  59:42
I right, thank you. You're welcome. Congrats again on your closing.

Speaker 5  59:46
Thank you. I'm gonna find another one. I'm I'm looking, I feel like, By February, I might have another company. That's my feeling.

Unknown Speaker  59:53
But awesome, I hope, super cool. Cool.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:05
Okay, anybody else got any questions?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:12
I have one. Sorry. Aileen, too.

Speaker 6  1:00:16
She said that she owns a bunch of businesses. How many of those Does she live by I know she said there's not anything in her area, and I'm having the same exact issue.

Speaker 5  1:00:26
Well, my shopping center, so I hold like a strip mall that's in my town, the restaurant's in my town. The laundromat I bought is four and a half hours for me. So my partners are managing that. I own a lot of real estate out of state. So those are my other companies. I have some stuff in Cincinnati and Missouri and Tennessee and all that's remote. So I went into a remote apartment group, a bunch of it was a cult, an awesome cult, kind of like, I love it, like the people are amazing in there, and we all invest together. And that's actually how I met the people that own laundromats, and we became friends, and then we're like, let's, let's have a baby together, which is a business, you know, and because we really actually have shared values and integrity and all that stuff. But yeah, so a lot of my a lot of my stuff, is now starting to be further and further away from me, which is really crazy, because I used to be the biggest type a controlling personality, and I had to boots on the ground for everything. I flipped houses for years and did. I had to see everything. So when I started doing things remotely, it was very uncomfortable, but I've gotten more and more comfortable with it, and as I've evolved as a person, I don't want to be in the day to day stuff. I would rather be remote, because it's easier for me not to overwork myself. If that makes sense,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:48
Yep, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 6  1:01:53
I think that's my issue too. Like, I have a lot of control issues too, and I like, I don't want to be further than two hours away,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:02
especially for the first one.

Speaker 1  1:02:04
Yeah, there's a lot to learn in that first one. You're going to find yourself needing to be there to absorb the information. You know, it was a learning, learning process, right? Eleni, you know you when you first started your businesses like you didn't you know you had the the history of your your father and what he had done to fall back on so you had somebody right there that could help you too. But there's still, until you do it, there's so much to learn.

Speaker 5  1:02:33
Yeah, and I wouldn't even even looking at those Makos, so my husband, he's a he's a parachute instructor for government contracts. So he's like, in Indiana jumping out of the sky right now, but he, like 90% of the time is home. He hasn't been working for like, four or five months. So in that time, what did he do the last four or five months? Well, four months I had him renovating my restaurant the month. The six months prior to that, he was renovating my shopping center for free. So My poor husband, he is like, he married me, and I was like, here's your honey to do list. And I had like, 18 pages freely. You know, he thought he was getting, like, this rich bitch, and instead, he got all these. But he loves it. My husband loves it. And he's like, super cool person. So anyways, the Makos, I'm not afraid to grab them, because he's home so much that I can just send him, because I still have my my nine to five job, right? And my nine to five is pretty flexible, like I'm the boss that can do whatever, so not whatever, within reason, right, to keep my stuff going. But I'm not so afraid to doing that, because I have such great partners. Also, if I do something, more than likely my sister will do it with me. She's my business partner on

Unknown Speaker  1:03:45
four companies,

Speaker 5  1:03:48
and one big investment we just did in AI this last month. But anyways, she'll probably come in with us too, and she's she's a real estate broker or a realtor, and she's very successful in commercial and she's an entrepreneur, so she has a lot of free time too. So I have partners. I resource partners that I trust, which is not easy to find. I have one very bad partner, and I have five very good partners. So I resource the people in my group that have more time flexibility. But honestly, my goal is to exit this job and just go straight companies. Start buying companies at this point, because I'm just, I think I'll be more successful. I think if I put all my energy, my job is just to the point now where it's kind of an energy drain for me. I kind of just kind of outlive that identity, if that makes sense. And I want to start really investing in companies and exit as soon as I can you've got the bug. I got the bug, and now it's like, oh, you can't unsee what you can't like once you're kind of done with something. And I'm like that. I'm really impulsive.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:50
So which is good and bad? You?

Speaker 1  1:05:00
That's cool. I mean, we get asked all the time, several times, about female entrepreneurs in male, traditionally male dominated businesses. And like, I've been looking for somebody, a female, to come in and kind of speak to that that has bought an repair shop, or, you know, Construction Company, something like that. And I'm curious to see I have one friend, but she's terrified and she's not going to come on here. She's not, it's not her thing. Like, she's like, I'm not a public person. I do my thing. So she wasn't willing to do it.

Speaker 5  1:05:36
But, well, my job is a male dominated job. I work in agriculture. I work in government and agriculture, which is male dominant, restaurant industry, male dominant. So I'm kind of a ceiling breaker. I'm not afraid to I'm not afraid of boys. In fact, I'm not intimidated by a lot of people. I went on stage last month in front of 25,000 people. I'll go on TV. I don't care. I go on radio. I'm not a shy person. I just I have so much experience on radio and all those things. So and I like to share my experience with people to give them hope and inspiration. Because, like, 10 years ago, I lived in, maybe 12 years ago, I lived in a mobile home and didn't have a house, didn't even have a car. So, like, I didn't have a lot what I had, what I had was time, and what I had was a good mind and a good work ethic. And so people approached me and gave me a part of a company My sister did. It was actually a crazy, funny story, but she bought a flip house, and my sister's the smartest person I know, but she's dyslexic, so she inverted the numbers, and there was two foreclosures on the same street, and she was in the wrong house, and when she went to the right house. It was a horde, and it was a mess. And I had been working in a mold Fire Restoration company for four years, so I was running 20, 3040, jobs at once, and I was really good at it. I'm really I'm really good at doing a lot of things at once, and I'm really organized person, so when she figured out, and I also speak Spanish, so I can run the cruise here. I'm right on the border of Mexico. I lived in Spain for a year, so I speak, you know, fluent Spanish. And so when she got that house and realized it wasn't the lipstick job one, it was the gut crazy job, and she called me and was like, want to be my partner. I was like, I have nothing to offer you but extremely awesome contacts and work ethic. I have no money. I literally was dirt poor in school, and she's like, 50% yours. And we literally started flipping houses like that. And I riffed houses in a bikini before, like I did, I tiled houses. I houses like in a bikini. I like to see that picture, Shane, but you know, you got you gotta, you gotta work your way up sometimes, and that's kind of how I did. And so I'm not, I can't. My body can't do that kind of stuff anymore. I'm 42 it's like, yeah, no, that's not happening. So now I have to resource my mind, and now I have more cash available. So thank God because I can't do that. My body can't do all the hard work anymore. Just doesn't, doesn't like it.

Speaker 1  1:08:02
Yeah, yeah. Well, we'll see. Like, maybe this Mako thing will work out, or, I'm sure you're going to find one, and we might, you know, have another episode. We'll see what happens.

Speaker 5  1:08:12
Yeah, yeah, I will. I asked the universe yesterday, like, Hey, show me which business I'm going to get next. And I walked out to my garage 20 minutes later to my water softener busted into two inches of water that that was yesterday. Yeah, that was yesterday. That happened within 20 minutes of me asking which, when I asked for signs, it usually pops up. Which I know is kind of weird and squirrely, but I do that stuff. And that night, my urinal overflowed at the restaurant too. So I was like, I feel like I'm getting a plumbing company. I'm open.

Speaker 1  1:08:45
Yeah, I don't believe in coincidence, so you probably,

Speaker 5  1:08:49
I mean, that was the laundromat, so nobody knows this, but I barely started following you that week, and you said, go look at biz by sell. And this is the funny part. I never looked at that website before in my life. I looked at that website and found that laundromat that week after I watched you. So i i things like that. Coincidence has happened for me, and I I follow them, and that's where impulsive behavior is good sometimes where I'm like, Hmm, that okay, there's a reason for this. And then, you know, so without me following you, I wouldn't have found that other

Unknown Speaker  1:09:18
deal. Cool. That's awesome.

Speaker 1  1:09:23
Yeah? Well, I look forward to seeing how it goes with the Mako or if you find a plumbing company. Yeah, I'll let you guys know.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:35
All right, does anybody else have any questions? No,

Speaker 1  1:09:45
okay, I'm still working on my loan broker friend. She she's going to let me know Monday if she can do the like a guest spot next week, next Thursday. So I think that'd be pretty cool. She's been a loan broker for. For, you know, decades we've, we've done a lot of deals together, so that might be interesting, just to break it up a little bit. Otherwise, I don't know. We'll, we'll be here, same bat time, same bat channel, doing what we do. And it's good to see the the new faces of the new people. And if you have any questions or get lost in the materials or anything, you can always reach out, and I or somebody in the community is always willing to help. So Okay, see you guys next week. Thank you, Shane, everyone. Thanks guys. Thank you. Bye.
