Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy, and it's May 22 and we're going to do some mentorship, Q, a, go through any questions that people have about business, acquisition stocks, general investing, real estate, whatever it is, and see, see what we can do. Joe, I think you would ask the question earlier.

Speaker 2  00:27
Shoot, absolutely, yeah, yeah, just to get back into that one. So my question was, as a new owner, how do you keep employees happy, who might be used to like previous management or whatever else like that. Because I know, like, even myself as an employee, when a new manager comes in, it's like, Alex, my old, my old manager, you know, you know, or a new owner in this case, or whatever. So how do you go about building a good rapport with the employees? Or do you come in, like, giving an incentivizing people, like, I don't know, giving everyone a new bunch of sodas or something. I don't know, meals every Friday. Like, how do you win people's favor and get people to like you right away?

Speaker 1  01:13
Pizza party? No, it's so when, before I am even in the purchase agreement phase, like, I always want to go talk to the employees. Sometimes they know that I'm interested in buying. Sometimes they don't. Sometimes I'm just there as a consultant or one owner, one time said that I was an insurance adjuster, because he didn't want the employees to know that he was selling, because he didn't want to make them, you know, antsy and leave right? Because the you know, selling a business is it takes a long time. You know, it takes a long time to find the right buyer, just like it takes a long time to find the right business to buy. So I every single employee, I always ask them two questions, at least, what is the thing they like most about this business and working there, and what is the thing they like least or wish was changed, you know? And I'll try, you know, we'll warm up first, and I'll just like, hey, how long you worked here? You know, where are you from? You know, all that kind of stuff, just to break the ice. But generally, they'll, they'll come up with some things that are good ideas that maybe the old owner wasn't ever considering or wasn't open to, like things that are just as simple as moving a bulletin board or a cork board somewhere so they don't have to walk as far that, you know, where the old owners like, no, it's always been there. We're always going to keep it there, you know, things like that that are just just listening to them. It puts you on the on the right foot to begin with. So especially if I can find something that's repeated amongst the, you know, the employees like, if they, if they say something like, I hate doing all this writing, and I get that a couple of times, then, you know, that's one of the first things you want to do is get rid of paper receipts and get rid of that stuff that's unnecessary because that baby boomers love, because they don't like to deal with technology. They want to be able to pick up a, you know, a piece of paper and it says what it says, And they write down what they they want, and they move it on, where most people, you know, they don't want to deal with that day to day, if they're decent with technology. So, so that's before I even can get into serious mode about, you know, if I'm going to buy the business, I want to know that information, and I'll never remember it all so soon as I leave, I write it all down. You know, I will always write all that stuff down, because it's so easy to, you know, go a month later and you think you're going to remember it, and you don't. So keep, keep records. That's, that's an easy one right there. And also, like, when I come in, I'm not going to make a bunch of changes, like changes will happen organically over time. I want to just make sure when I come in that the same cash flow is coming in, the same revenue as when the owner left. I don't want to come in and think that I know better than everybody. And I'm going to do this, and I'm going to do that because that will spook employees, and especially managers. So all those questions that I asked to the regular employees, I will also ask to the managers, but I'll have like, when I come in, like before actually take over, I will talk to the managers in person, and I'm putting in the purchase agreement a clause that says, Without You know, I want a verbal agreement from whoever I think is going To be the main manager and the assistant manager, or CO managers, or whatever the situation is that I have a verbal agreement from them that they are going to continue their employment when I, when I take over, and there's no way you can't hold anyone to it. But if, if I get the feeling that they're not going to it gives me a way to get out before I'm. Stuck in a business where I'm going to have to manage it on my own, not knowing what's going on. So that's another thing, but that I kind of got off on a tangent there. But as far as the managers themselves, I just want them to know that I'm committed to listening to them. I'm committed to making sure that they have all the resources they need to grow the business, to make it more efficient, and then I will introduce at least to one of them, if not both, possible equity in the future. Like, you know, like, Hey, I'm, basically, I'm, I'm hitching my my wagon to you. I'm trusting you to be able to handle this business. I see I see leadership qualities. I see that you enjoy working here. You You want to make this business better, and I'm committed to giving you everything you need to do in order to do that. And you know, the future of this business is connected directly to your future. The better you do, the better the business does. We can get some equity in there and get you more money and get you more stability for you and your family and whatever. You know that I just want to make sure that they see the vision, that I'm not coming in and I'm not going to juice the numbers and sell it next year. You know, I'm, you know, I'm planning on coming in there and I'm buying the business to maintain what it's already doing and then grow it from there. I'm not selling the pieces off. I'm not doing some, you know, something crazy and selling it to a PE firm, none of that stuff. So, so it's kind of a different conversation that you have a managers than you do with the regular employees? Because it's more important that the manager stay. You know, you can hire a regular, you know, entry level employee, but those managers are hard to find.

Speaker 2  06:53
Absolutely, you brought up a good, really good point, um, how much equity would you offer a manager? Or have you thought about that? Or have done that already?

Speaker 1  07:01
Yeah, I don't, I don't tell them a number. I just say equity in the future. I would not, you know, I would, it would be like a 1% a year, upwards of, like, six or 7% like, it depends on the business, depends on how much they do, depend, you know, I would, I if they are really good, I'm not bothered with anything. I would, you know, I could structure something where they could earn up to 10% I would be okay with that over time. But it would also be phantom equity if they ever leave, if they if they leave within 10 years of giving them that equity or starting the equity process, then it would come back to the company. They wouldn't take it with them. I wouldn't want somebody to give somebody 10% you know, and then year three, they're gone. They leave and want me to pay for that ownership. That's not going to work, right?

Speaker 2  07:50
That's a good point, that phantom equity is equity is a really good point to make there. Thank you,

Speaker 1  07:56
yeah, and you don't, you don't say phantom equity. It's still equity. It's just when you, you know, when you sign up to make the contracts, and they sign the contracts for the equity, there's a clause in there. It just says, if you leave within this time frame, you don't that it's not vested. It's like when you go to a new job and they have a 401 K match. You only get all of that 401 K match if you're there for five years, you know, otherwise, you get 25% of it if you're there for a year, 50 if you're there for, you know, so on and so forth. It vests over time, it'd be the it's the same thing with equity, same thing.

Unknown Speaker  08:34
Oh, awesome. Thank you, patience.

Speaker 3  08:40
Um, I just wanted to add, this is book that I have. I'm not sure, um, Joseph, you might want to take a look at this book. Everything Shane said, and even some more is, leaders eat last. Where's my what's my camera, leaders eat last. By Simon Shane, I hope I'm saying the name right. It's kind of like a book with three forks, two black plates and a gold import. So, very good book.

Unknown Speaker  09:11
Okay, yeah, I've never heard of it.

Speaker 3  09:13
Oh, it's, it's an excellent book. Everything you're saying right now, it's all in the book. Like this guy bought a company, and he walked through and the same company, I think he went to a different location. So the the walker in that particular company went to their factory, or their location in Mexico, and realized the way the workers have been treated is different from the way the ones in America are being treated, where they respond to bells and whistles, like dogs, stuff like that. And then the this guy that purchased this business walked through, and he was like observing, and initially, when he walked in. People were organically just happy and just having a little chit chat. And then when the manager went through, they all straightened up and became like a robot. And he observed that. Then, you know, so gradually he started like, you know, implementing some of the things like that you're talking about right now, just listening in. It's a very good book, leaders. It lasts by Simon Shane. I hope I'm saying the right s, I N, E, K. I was trying to show it on my screen, but it looked like I'm on, you know, the green screen, so it's not coming off.

Unknown Speaker  10:38
Okay, I'll definitely check it out.

Speaker 3  10:41
Yeah. So my question, I don't know if it's just a question, but it's more of like a discussion, like so I have to be truthful to you, when we first started, I came with all my heart, but at the same time I was I felt like I was doubting being able to be financially Okay, to secure any business, because I've been in America 20 years, and my credit has been one thing that's been excellent. Up until last year, my credit report was like in a seven something, and I was even approved for like, 300,000 to purchase a home, which I backed that off the last minute, like, hey, something is not right with the foundation. I'm not taking this home so. Fast forward later this year. Little struggle with other things here and there, and utilization of my card for definitely my, you know, my business, that I was going from scratch, kind of affected me a little bit, and then I dropped down to the system, so I'm in this class, taking all my notes, you know, really writing down, but I wasn't certain that okay, when I checked my credit This year, my work, what happened to this? So I was just following along. So I found this business. Shane, like I told you, it's a beauty shop. It's in my area. I actually go there to get my beauty supplies. And then I saw a sign closing, oh, wow, closing sales. And I'm like, Why? Why is he closing? Somebody can keep this stuff going? So I approached the seller, and he looked at me, and he he could tell, like, Okay, this lady has an idea of what she's talking about. Like, well, we've been through all of this, you know, we've been really, like, grown by you to know how to, you know, be so confident and have that conversation. So he was, like, excited, like, okay, yeah, if you want. So I asked her, Why is he selling? He said he's retiring. He's old. He's 75 he don't want to do this no more. He's been doing this for 30 years. So, long story short, he was excited, and then I came the next morning. He's like, come tomorrow. I'll show you everything. I'll tell you, if you can just give me the money. I don't care where you get the money from, I'll give you everything. We'll call it a day. I came the next day, and it was so reluctant. And he got to the point where he was even telling me, like he's English. He's not so good. I have to speak to his attorney. He's not gonna do anything with me. I'm like, what change? What made you change overnight, you know? So he was very bent on not showing me anything. I'm not giving me anything. So I called the attorney, and he was like, Yeah, I'm not even ready to talk to you. You gotta contact your attorney to talk to me. I'm like, Oh, my God. So, long story short, I left, and I was very sad. I prayed about it. When I got home the next day, I got a miscom, like, okay, oh, he called me. I played the message and it wasn't him. He's like, Yeah, come over. My attorney said I can show you some things. So I went there the next day, and he was only able to show me the sales and the revenue like, you know, he showed me 2023

Unknown Speaker  14:09
total sales happened to be like, you Know, $266,000

Speaker 3  14:17
in 2024 it was 270 6000 ish. And he told me, prior to the pandemic, he was pulling in about 400,000 that since after the pandemic, things slowed down, but it's now beginning to pick up. So I saw that trend of 2023 being 260 something, then 2024 to send something so and then I quickly said, Okay, can I look into the like a daily, your daily averages, like it was in 1000 plus. And then weekly was like in the 77 I mean, 75 Five, 7500 ish average weekly sales. So when you do the math, first of all, I was like, because when he was talking to me the first day, I was like, Oh, how much do you pay for the rent in this one? Because it's my area, and I was curious to know what his rent was. I know another guy down the street. I talked a couple of business owners. I'm kind of friendly with them, you know, trying to keep, keep, keep my food at the door. You never know. Like, who recommends what? It's a coffee shop guy down the street, and he's very good to me. I got to know him. And a bunch of people come to the coffee shop, and you will never imagined come there. So when he told me, he said The rent was 5000 a month. So I quickly wanted to know, like, you know, what is your daily or weekly, you know? So I do have an idea of the revenue, like I saw it in the computer myself, and I saw the record as well. The only thing he has not shown me is his expenses. That mean he hasn't shown me the profit and loss, definitely, and he hasn't shown me if the business is making any loss. So he just said, okay with the revenue he showed me, or rather the sales, with the sales, which is kind of like a revenue, too. He said, Okay, this is it. I'm not going beyond this. You have to go sign something with, you know, my lawyer before I can release anything else. So it was

Unknown Speaker  16:37
an NDA or something else. Um,

Speaker 3  16:43
he wants me to sign a non disclosure, or, yeah, non disclosure, especially because he he files this, it look like he filed this as a not sole proprietor. So he finds it through his personal tax so, but I was really curious, or I was really like, I've always wanted to own a beauty supply store as a black woman, I feel like we use this product, and 99.9% of The people who own this industry is foreigners, Korea, Chinese. Everybody, except black people. So I feel like, you know, I always wanted to own something in this industry. And my fiance right now, who have known like a friend that I've known for over 20 years, this is the industry where it's his industry. Like, he grew a lot of businesses in Africa, and he got them stabilized. Like, this is his butter and bread. So I've told him in the past, like, Hey, you want to start something in this. I don't think I want to do it. So long story short is I, I know when you send me a message, you were telling me like you know you were giving me the right information, but I still wanted to stick it out to see if anything can come out, because I really wanted this industry. So I went to, I was talking with my lawyer. I had a lawyer before an attorney who someone recommended to me, is, all he does is business, purchases and stuff like that. He's very good, and he happened to be somebody in my community too. So he he said he will help like he's not really. He wants me to succeed, so he will help. So I said, Okay, fine. Can you contact them? So he did make the contact today, and he's gonna draft the let, I think the lawyer said, the attorney said he wants a letter of intent. I'm like, I feel like they're dragging it.

Speaker 1  18:55
So, yeah, I mean, it's a little strange. If they are, they're asking for a letter of intent right now, and you haven't even, you know that first step is get your NDA. If they want you to sign an NDA, that's fine. That's that's standard like that. That's more times than not they want you to sign an NDA before they give you those financials, because it's got, you know, personal information, especially because it's going to be, it's a sole proprietorship. It's going to be his personal tax returns, his or her tax returns, and it's going to have, you know, all their information on it. Obviously, it's, you don't want people to get all your information, and so that that standard, but before you even get cash flow numbers and things like that, with an LOI, that's a little it's a little it's a little odd, you know, because the revenue and the sales are irrelevant. That revenue could have said $100 trillion and it really doesn't matter, because it matters how much profit, how much, you know, seller, discretionary earnings at the end of the year. That's what matters. That number. Or is what determines everything, you know, because if it's, if it's doing 300,000 a year, but the expenses are 275 is it really worth it? You know, do all that stuff for $25,000 so that's, that's what really matters. So you know, if they want you to sign an NDA, I would, I would press to sign the NDA, as soon as you can those actual numbers. Now, if the attorney is not charging you, is he not charging you? Oh, he's

Speaker 3  20:30
gonna charge me, but I think he's gonna take it easy with me, like, you know, I told him, I said, it's not about the money. I feel like there's an opportunity here, especially with her supply, Beauty Supply. He said, um, yeah, he would want me to come in to sign some paperwork. So I'll see how it goes. But I jumped ahead of him without, you know, I just wanted to make myself ready, so I went to the my bank, to my local bank. I have two separate banks, one that I've been with for almost 20 years, and another one that I started with, one of my vehicle not too long ago, my personal vehicle. So my personal bank asked me to get the business profit and loss, and then the tax return, they want to see that. But then I went to my other bank, and I think that banker was, for some reason I found favor with the banker. He was more into he was showing more interest in helping me out. And he told me he will. He told me what to do, like, you know, just like you've said in the past, to form an entity, and then he's going to go through the route of an XBA.

Speaker 1  21:56
Okay, okay, yeah. I mean your your mission one should be to sign that NDA, and you know, because if it comes back, maybe it makes, maybe it loses money patients, and you're paying an attorney right now, that's true for, you know, for looking into a business that possibly is not making any money whatsoever, so it's and if the owner is being weird about it, and doesn't want you to see those numbers before you sign an LOI. And then that's a red flag. Because, you know, an LOI is not bad. It's not binding. It doesn't mean that you have to buy it, but at the same time, you're having an attorney do it. That's why, in situations like this, you know, you could just go get the LOI out of the resources, change it to all your information, and that'll get you through right there. And you can sign that. They can sign it, and it didn't cost you anything. And at the end of the day, like you can get out of it. As soon as you see the cash flow, you can say, well, Nope, it's not high enough. I'm out, and that's it. It's over. You know,

Unknown Speaker  23:04
my question is,

Speaker 3  23:08
for a sole proprietorship like this, you know, how, like the acquisition formula that you give to us, how do I go about, like, plugging those numbers in? Or should I just go off of the profit, the loss,

Speaker 1  23:25
the tax, it's still going to it's probably still an LLC, it's just taxed as a sole proprietorship, which is what, that's exactly what we went through a couple weeks ago. That business, those numbers that we look through the tax returns, and the P and L's were a similar business, because that's what most of them at this level are LLCs that are taxed as sole proprietors or S corps, possibly, but they're so it'll be on the schedule C on their tax return. It's already separated, you know, into the business income. It's right there.

Speaker 3  23:55
So when we so when we went, when I went to the bank, the banker, I think I didn't do this before I went to the bank, but the banker, he mentioned the site that he could go and pull some stuff about the business. But then we went into the state, you know, the state site for all businesses, and we looked up the business, or rather, he looked up the business, and we discovered that the business was incorporated between 1985 and 1987 in 1987 it was dissolved. So I don't know if this is like another red flag. So the business name is right there as a different location in Chicago, and this is, I'm kind of halfway between the suburb and the city. So it was incorporated and it was registered from 85 87 and from that time till now, there's no record. There's nothing. It was actually dissolved. So I'm thinking it

Unknown Speaker  25:09
might have been purchased then,

Speaker 3  25:11
yeah, he told me, the wife told me. The wife told me they purchased it. So when they purchased it, could it have been that they became like sole proprietorship, and he handled it

Speaker 1  25:23
like that. It could, but they also could have purchased it through an LLC with an asset sale, and they're just doing business as the same name as it was before, but an LLC actually owns it. So, you know, when you when you do an asset sale, like you come in with, you know, patients LLC, then you're gonna list all that stuff in your purchase agreement. You're gonna acquire those things, including the name, and you're gonna do a DBA, is what it's called, A doing business, as whatever that business is called. So it's

Unknown Speaker  25:55
not those until we get the documents. Yeah,

Speaker 1  25:58
those are things like, write this stuff down, like when you get the when you start getting the documents you get, start getting access to the owner to ask these questions. Ask them, we know, what is the structure of the business, which it'll say on your tax on those tax returns, if you get it, you'll be able to see, right? Yeah. But you know, what year did they purchase it? You know, if they purchased it in 87 or whatever, you know, did they move it from that other location to this location? Like all those kind of things matter, you know? You just want to. You want to find out all that history and all that background, but, but, yeah, it's pretty early to be paying an attorney. You know, it

Speaker 3  26:37
is, it is. But there was so, so the way, he handled it was, he was, he told me, Oh, you showed up late. I'm already running sales. See, that's another thing I'm worried about. He put 20% off so he can sell off and close off. And he told me, like, if you want to, if you want to acquire the business, do it for you. Don't do it for me. Like, because I was trying to motivate him, I don't. Wouldn't you like the fact that this business that you've kept for all these years, that you go and buy the neighborhood someday and it's still there, somebody's still running it. He's like, No, don't do it for me. Do it for you. Like, you know, if I'm old, I don't want like, he look like he and his wife, they run the business all these years. They've been married for over 40 something years, they old, and they've been running it. And the wife was like nudging him, Hey, be nice to this young lady. I really like her. I think I want her to have the business. And she was telling me, hey, you can do this. You know, it's very lucrative. We did it. It was good. When I purchased it, I didn't know nothing about beauty and all these things. And she was even encouraging me that, because you're black, like majority of our customers are black, you'll be able to relate even better. And I think you're a nice person, you will do good with the business. But the guy was just like, a little cranky and upfront, not

Speaker 1  28:01
very well. And it might be a situation, you know, this would be a perfect seller finance situation, potentially, like, if he hadn't even considered selling it and he was just going to close down, maybe he thought no one would buy it, you know, if it's never been listed. I mean, maybe he just didn't want to deal with that. So, I mean, you could come in and assume that business potentially, so I would still, I would still pursue it, but don't put a lot of your own money and resources into an attorney that's going to charge you hundreds of dollars an hour. I know he might be nice or attorneys at the end. Yeah, you're right. Their time is their time is valuable. That's why they went to school for all those years, so they could bill people this much money. So so just, just remember that, and you should never have to pay like, like Joe said, you know, you don't pay for an NDA at that at that stage, you should. You should not be out of pocket any money for an NDA like they should. If it's a if it's a broker, the broker sends you an NDA. If they have a lawyer, their lawyer sends you an NDA, because the NDA, that's what I that's safe, not you. It's to keep the seller safe, so that has really nothing to do with you. So they incur the the costs of getting an NDA written up and all that stuff. So that shouldn't you shouldn't have to have an attorney for that so, so just be careful. Don't. All I'm saying is just don't, don't drop a lot of money into something that you don't even you don't have enough information to know if it's worth

Speaker 3  29:33
Syria, yeah, but I feel like the other attorneys trying to make things difficult for me, because I told him, prior to starting this year class, I had actually almost, you know, coming out of some program try to purchase a business on my own before, and I was smart enough to look at the data, and I'm like, Okay, now this, this doesn't add up. And. I walked away. So I was telling the attorney, hey, you know what? When I first talked to him, he was telling me, like, oh, I have to go draft. I said, Hey, what are you talking about? You are the one selling you are supposed to give me the documents to sign. And he was like, oh, no, I'm the lawyer. Why are you telling me what to do? You're telling me my job. I'm like, Okay, fine. He said, You know, I'm not ready to talk to you. I think you should have your lawyer contact me. I'm like, what you are telling me is basically go driving with my eyes blindfolded, like you have not given me any information, but you're telling me to go get a lawyer. How am I even sure that I want to pursue this business? If you know, but I think, thank you for your advice. I'm just going to hang in there. So would you advise that I don't even open a business at this point because the bank was advising me, the banker was advising me to go open a business so that way they can start, he can start working on a loan or something for me.

Speaker 1  31:13
Well, no, I mean, it's way too early, way too early for any of that. Like, you know how I feel about starting a business as opposed to buying one, it's way more difficult to start a business from scratch than it is to buy one that's already profitable. So if you were to step into that business, you to buy it from the old owners. You get all the customers that have been coming there for years. You get the name that's been in that neighborhood for years. You get the, you know, the equipment. You get everything you need. You know it's a functioning, hopefully profitable business that you know day one. But if you're starting from scratch, you're getting a loan for the average startup loan is $60,000 so you're stepping into a situation where you don't know if you're going to have customers. You don't know if you're going to have, you know, employees. You don't know how things are. You don't know anything. You're just kind of hoping that you can figure it out. And but you're putting $60,000 on the line in a hope that it's going to going to work out, whereas if you had $60,000 it took you to maybe put a down payment or to purchase that business. And you know, it's every month that's making 10,000 in profit. Then there you go, like, you, you know, like the first week after that first week, I know that they do this many haircuts and, you know, whatever, pedicures and manicure like, all that stuff adds up, and it's this much so you, you know, a banker definitely wants to give you a loan, a startup loan, you know, they they want to put some high interest debt on you because you've got a certain whatever credit score, and they feel like they'll, you'll pay it back. So keep yourself safe. You know, all, just keep, keep looking for a business to purchase, and that this one might be the one who knows. But like, it's very unorthodox what they're asking you to do. So that's all I'm saying. Just Just be very careful.

Speaker 3  33:07
Okay, so what would you recommend that I do at this point? Just wait until I signed the LO NDA.

Speaker 1  33:15
The NDA I would sign. I would try. I would pursue signing the NDA and ask for those financials and see what they say from there, if they don't want to give you those financials that you need after signing an NDA, then I would just walk away. Okay, yeah, walk away. Wait for him to sell all of his inventory and and then see how much they're going to lease that place for. That's better than getting into some, you know? I mean, you could maybe even, at the end of it by the name from him, if the name means something in that neighborhood, you know, if he's just going to shut it down. But yeah, I, I definitely, if they're not going to give me the numbers, I'm not pursuing it. You know, you're doing them a favor. They're shutting down. Yeah?

Speaker 3  34:00
But he feels like, Ah, I mean, I'm done, I'm old, I'm done. So I don't care. Do it for you if you want it so well, I mean, that's a good attitude. He feels like he's doing me a favor. I think that's right. Well, if

Speaker 1  34:15
he gives you a really good deal and it makes money, he might be but, you know,

Speaker 3  34:19
he he actually said the business was, should be in about 250,000 that's why he claimed. But he said he's, he's willing to give it to to me for 150 and I'm like, okay, he's been mentioning 150 he said, but if

Speaker 1  34:36
he wants to sell it to you for 150 it needs to make at least 50,000 a year, at least in profit, in profit, okay? In profit, yeah, pure profit, SDE, cash flow, whatever. You know, it needs to be at least that for 150,000 otherwise it doesn't make sense, because you're going to have to, you know, bring a down payment for that. And but if it does, if it does. Cash Flow 50, and they're asking 150 it should be pretty easy to get a loan for that business, especially if you have a relationship with a bank, but you're probably going to have to put 20% on it, because it's a small business.

Unknown Speaker  35:13
Oh, 20% down payments. Yeah, probably.

Speaker 3  35:16
So that's the reason why the banker was trying to go even with the SBA, have to put 20 down. Well, the

Speaker 1  35:21
SBA only requires 10, but the banks, the banks themselves, generally, will, like a small business, are going to want 20 instead of the 10. The SBA is not it's not going to put that restriction on you, but you won't be able to get through the banks to them, because they consider the smaller businesses more risky. If they're less than 350 they're considered more risky than anything that's over 350 so some, some banks, like we saw with Tran, you know, he was able to not he didn't have to bring 20% and hit, I forget what his was. It's three. I don't know it's three, something that depends on the bank. But most, and if it's uh, if it's not going to qualify through the SBA, then you're definitely going to have to put 20% so just, just be prepared there might, you might run into a situation where you have to do 20% down payment.

Speaker 3  36:13
So on what condition will it not go through with the SBA? Is it like my credits?

Speaker 1  36:19
Yeah, could be. It could be your credit. It could be the financials of that business are not structured in a way that they can get the information that they need. That's another thing. So it might be one of those things like, oh well, these books are crazy. They're all over the place. This, this old man was, you know, not recording this. He was not doing this. If it's a lot, if it's a cash like a high cash business, where a lot of stuff's coming in through cash. That's another thing, because it's hard to keep records of that. I mean, yeah, it could be personally, you you know, you might not have the credit score, you might not have the credit profile. They might want collateral, you know, because they consider it more risky. You know, if you don't own your own home, you know, if you come in, if you go to a bank, and you've got a really good deal, I've got solid financials. It's got these numbers just basically are begging the bank to give, to put money into it. It's easy to get financed. But when you come in with a deal, it's smaller than what they're used to. It's, it's got weird books, it's more cash, you know, cash based, like those kind of things, that it just makes it, you know, they want you to succeed. They want you to spend years paying that off, because that's maximizes their profit. So they don't want it to be too risky, and the riskier it is, the more money they want you to put in it, or the more collateral they want you to bring to justify their risk. So it's a scale, so it just it all depends. If you get, all you can do at this point is get your personal credit profile to be as solid as you can. You know, 680 or better, not a lot of debt, not you know, no collections, no bankruptcies, things like that. And then, then everything else is based on the business, the deal itself.

Speaker 3  38:15
All right, thank you. I think there's something that you missed the it's not of beauty shop that does hair. It's a beauty supply. You know the products it sells, the hair product, the creams, all of those, is not a place where it's service or cash base is a product sale. So they do have, from what I see, everything he uses his he uses a software, like he uses the cash register and all of those,

Speaker 1  38:53
okay, well, that that's that's better. He's very he

Speaker 3  38:57
was, he's very detailed with his books, like he was, like this old school with writing out the computer. Does his own but he also does his crown on the side, right? Yeah, so he's pretty detailed with his numbers, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  39:14
Okay, okay. Well, keep me posted. I will,

Speaker 3  39:20
and I hope I get it. I hope things work out. I just don't know at this point.

Speaker 1  39:24
Don't fall in love with the deal, though. You don't even know anything about it, so don't I know, into it so easy, right? Especially when they're close to you, and you have a you've been going there, you know, I ran into the same thing. This was maybe six months ago. There was a lady that she was, she's going to, I think she's actually shut down now. She was liquidating. It was a religious like, a gift shop kind of thing. They sell, you know, they sell candles and things to the Catholic churches in town, and they sell books and you name it. You know, a. Um, it's a Christian based business. And I was like, well, this, it's a good location, and she was the sweetest person in the world. She She was an immigrant from Vietnam. She's been here for like, 4050, years. Her husband had had a stroke. He's the one that started the business, and she was struggling to keep it going because she didn't know how to do the stuff. And, you know, it broke my heart. But when I look at the books, I mean, it was, it was losing money every single month, no. And I've, I've felt for, you know, and I love the idea of that, and, but I just, you know, I couldn't do it, you know, so, so just, just be careful. Don't, don't fall in love with the deal.

Unknown Speaker  40:45
Okay, business, all right,

Unknown Speaker  40:49
thank you.

Speaker 1  40:50
Yeah, no problem. I think Wally, did you have a question earlier?

Speaker 4  40:57
I forgot what it was. No, sorry. Okay, yeah, if

Speaker 5  41:08
you want to save up some money, like, on these attorneys, you can use, like, AI, yeah, like, I use Google, Gemini, the paid version, and it's really great, like, you can validate the business, or can run numbers for you, so you don't have to pay like attorney for like basic stuff, so you will have ahead of time if it's if the business is worth it, or use a Shane, like a DSCR the calculator like an Excel spreadsheet.

Speaker 3  41:35
So how can I do that if I don't have some of these numbers for me?

Speaker 5  41:39
I mean, if you when, once you have the access to those financials, yeah.

Speaker 3  41:44
Oh, definitely, yeah. Okay, okay, yeah. I think the only problem I was just dealing with is with what Shane had taught us so far, I was ready to, like, take on anything, like, when they bring it on, but they were insisting, like, they don't want to deal with, you know, person to person. They want a lawyer to lawyer, which didn't even make sense, like I was telling Shane earlier, even if you want me to bring a lawyer, you have to, like, I have to take care of some stuff out of the way. Like, you know, the non disclosure, I don't need a lawyer to do that, but they're just making it difficult. So it's me just giving it a little try to see, until I see the numbers, to see if this is my lucky one.

Unknown Speaker  42:33
Thank you, though I appreciate

Speaker 3  42:37
and Shane, I will try to not fall in love too much, because, I think, because I've been wanting to own something like this, I felt so like emotion and attached already so

Speaker 1  42:47
well, that's, I mean, that's good that you So, if nothing else, you found your your passion. So if you can, there are a lot of beauty shops. There are a lot of, probably beauty supply stores too. I mean, or

Unknown Speaker  43:00
beauty supply store, yeah, yeah. I

Speaker 1  43:03
mean, they're those businesses are out there, all over the place. So if that's, if that's what you're into, and that's what you want, at least, you know, find one that's a good deal, and then you can go, you can go from there.

Speaker 3  43:16
Oh, Shane, I forgot to mention that this is a business run by day. So this is a job, pretty much. Yeah. So would you recommend a job like this, putting somebody in there? Of course, my fiance already said, like, hey, you know, you don't hand something like this to someone when you first get it, don't do it.

Speaker 1  43:43
No, you can't. Just you can't. It doesn't work like that, where you can just hire a manager to come in, especially on a small business like this, that if he's asking 150 for it, there's not a lot of cash flow in there that's available to hire a manager. This is an owner operator business at this level, so you're willing to operate it yourself for, you know, maybe it makes 75,000 if that's what you want to do, that's fine. But just that's probably what it's going to be. It's going to be a situation like that. So whereas, you know, if there are other employees in there that maybe you could promote to a manager. That's something. But, I mean, who knows if they've been running it, the two of them together for 40 years,

Unknown Speaker  44:29
it's gonna be a little tough.

Unknown Speaker  44:34
See, Yep,

Unknown Speaker  44:39
thank you. You're welcome.

Speaker 5  44:44
Looks like Daniel. She asked about the AI, how different the Google Gemini from chat GPT. They recently did a benchmark between those two and that somehow Google Gemini performed better, like in some. The benchmarks. So since I have access to it, yeah, I use now, if you have a like, a ed.edu, email, Google now giving away access to like for 18 months and plus additional two terabytes of data like, to the for the Google Drive here, so you can use that if you have it, and it's really good. I like that the deep research model you can, I think, on chat GPT, you also have that feature. It will just, you can find, like, prices or like all kinds of things, yeah, like, like a personal agent or assistant. It's really good.

Speaker 1  45:44
Yeah, Gemini used to be where I was generating logos and images, because it was better at the images than chat GPT. Chat GPT had some real issues with that that they fixed, but, yeah, I have used Jim and I just just for images, not for for anything else. But I don't use Google hardly at all anymore. As far as just to search, I'll just use whatever AI tool and search through there. It'll get you everything you need. And then, you know, with links to where you need to go, with links to where it got the information. Yeah, it's, it's pretty good. I think it's hard to go wrong any of those AI tools, they're all learning from each other. They're all running the, you know, getting the information from the questions that are coming up. Because it's a, it's a large language model, so it's called an LLM, so the more it's used, the more they record, the more it has to go back on. Well, Ernie asked for this six months ago, and he liked the results of that. I'm going to send this, these similar results to Gina, because she's using it too for the same kind of search, like it just gets better and better and better. They all. Are all of them, yeah, I don't think you can really go wrong with any of them, as long as you know how to do the prompts, you know. And one, one thing to do all the time is when you do these prompts, say, act as a blah, blah, blah, look so act as a world class musician. And, you know, teach me music theory, whatever it is that you're trying to do, you know, act as a small business acquisition and experienced small, small business acquirer in this state, and assess the numbers for this business. Here's what they are, here's the cash flow, here's the, you know, purchase price, blah, blah, blah, and make an analysis, come up with a pro forma and determine what the numbers would be in the first year of operation. What are the possible pitfalls that can come up like it'll give you so much information, but you have to know how to ask for it, and they all will do that. You can also, if you don't know how to structure a question, you can ask the AI how to structure the question. If I wanted to know the most about whatever, what would be the best prompt to use to get the most information from Ai? It'll tell you how to do it like it's it's amazing if as long as you fiddle with it, long enough, you can, you can see the patterns of how to get the best information from it. Good question, though,

Speaker 4  48:39
Keith, it's probably redundant, but I'm still relatively new. Where are you guys looking for businesses sold by owner besides Facebook? Or is that like the main the main place?

Speaker 1  48:53
Yeah, those Facebook groups are the main place that I look for them, unless you know, I've driven by some places and they just had a for sale sign on them before too. That that actually has, has been better than Facebook, because I think, I think people get jaded on Facebook, because it gets so many inquiries, and people are just like, asking, you know, it's like, it's like, marketplace. You put something on marketplace for sale, and somebody's like, oh, yeah, is this available? Is this available? That's all you get all day. Is it still available? Still available? So they get tired of it. Gotcha? Okay, yeah. Joe, have you had any luck with the direct mailing to owners. Have you got any leads that way?

Speaker 2  49:46
I'm still working on that. There's a software called instantly AI that will research and find the business owners for you, and then it kind of writes the emails for you. So I'm still in the process on that one. It.

Speaker 1  50:11
Keith, are you still down to do a class?

Speaker 4  50:15
Yeah, yeah, give me a give me a couple weeks. I'm looking through some deals.

Unknown Speaker  50:19
Okay, awesome.

Speaker 1  50:23
Or where can you find a good accountant? It's a great question. So it depends on what kind of accountant you're looking for. Are you looking for someone that specializes in real estate? Are you looking for a business accountant, or more, like just a personal finance accountant that can get you, you know, maximize your personal returns.

Speaker 6  50:43
Oh, yeah, hi. This is May I ask that question? So the question is more like I have signed an NDA and I was given all this numbers that this business is. So I want to, I guess, find a good accountant who can vet it and say, Yeah, this is a good business to get into. You know, they are not like cheating. Cut corners here and there and report incorrectly, you know. So, yeah, where can I find such a good accountant?

Speaker 1  51:16
Okay, well, let me, let me ask you, this may so you reached out, they gave you all the financials. Have you done an LOI or anything like that? Or you just, you just looking at the initial financials that they sent you,

Speaker 6  51:29
there's just initial finance. I'm just like, early stage loi is the letter of intent, isn't it?

Speaker 1  51:35
Yes, yes. Now did you so did you get three to five years of tax returns and three to five years of profit and loss statements and a year to date statement,

Speaker 6  51:45
yeah, it's kind of peppered through Yes To answer your question, yes.

Speaker 1  51:51
Okay, did you see the video from a couple weeks ago where you can, you can analyze those financials on your own?

Speaker 6  51:59
No, I did not. Is it on the academy?

Speaker 1  52:02
Yeah, it's in it's in the classroom, if you so. I think it's the last business one we did before this one. It just kind of takes you through that process. So you might be able to even, even before you get to that point of asking an accountant to look at it, you might be able to, you know, look at it yourself and see if it's if it's worth it. And also the the analyzing tool, the the spreadsheet where you plug the numbers in from the profit and loss that will help you too, to determine whether it's a good deal or not.

Speaker 6  52:32
Oh, okay, is it under the classroom tab?

Speaker 1  52:37
Yeah, yeah. So let me, let me share my screen, and we'll get to that. Add the school up, I do not show you.

Unknown Speaker  52:53
So if you go to the classroom,

Speaker 1  52:57
and then it's part of the business, Ah, okay, and then it's the financials breakdown. Right here is the last business one we did, and it kind of goes through, you know, first you're checking the profit and loss statements, then you're checking the profit and loss statements against the tax returns. So then also, I think this one right here. Also, well, one of these,

Unknown Speaker  53:28
I think, I think that's it. Okay.

Speaker 1  53:32
There you go from search to sale. That one actually helps you go through the spreadsheet. I believe where you can, you can plug that stuff into the spreadsheet. Do you know what I mean by the spreadsheet?

Speaker 6  53:44
I think I saw that briefly somewhere, maybe in one of your Tiktok.

Speaker 1  53:50
Okay, yeah. So if you go on here, this resource bundle link, you can click it'll take you to the drive here that's got all the resources in it. And side of here it's, it's called the money. And right here, money analyzer, 5000 you can download that.

Unknown Speaker  54:10
Okay, analyze it.

Unknown Speaker  54:12
Did that? Download, link it down and see it. There it is.

Unknown Speaker  54:23
Okay, so open this real fast and kind of show you.

Speaker 1  54:30
Oh, okay, cool, yeah. So if you look at this, you click the Summary tab here, and you can plug your numbers in, what they're asking for it, what the cash flow, or the EBIT die is, you know, your revenue, if there's, you know, I don't know what kind of business it is, but you can start plugging these in, and then you can see over it, all the numbers will will come through over here. So you can see what the DSCR is. You can see what the after debt, cash flow, all of that stuff we're. It'll come out over here.

Speaker 6  55:02
Okay, cool. So at which point would you approach accountant? I mean, after I vetted to say it looks good?

Speaker 1  55:10
Yeah, so I will, I do that right before the attorney, so right right before the purchase agreement. Or usually it depends. It depends if we're I'm trying to move quickly. If I'm trying to move quickly, I will. I'll go ahead and and do a purchase agreement and move forward like but I've done this for long enough that I know pretty much what's a good deal and pretty much what isn't a good deal. You know, I still send the financials to my accountant, and he looks over them to make sure I didn't miss anything. But, yeah, I I will just vet it myself first, and then then the accountant, then the attorney at the end. So, but yeah, I usually put them under loi after I determine on my own from using this and looking at the financials myself, I will go ahead and submit a letter of intent, because it's not, it's non binding, so it's just telling them that, hey, I'm serious. I'm interested in buying this business. I'm serious. Don't shop it around to other people. I want to look more at the financials. I want to take the further steps. And then that just kind of locks it down. Because right now, if somebody else says, Oh, this is a good deal. And then, you know, they do the LOI and have a, you know, a non competitive clause in there. Then you can't, you're, you know, you reach out to them, and they say, Oh, well, you know, we're talking to another buyer, like you can't get in there. I see, I see, okay.

Speaker 6  56:40
Do you have any recommend accountant? I'm just thinking ahead.

Speaker 1  56:44
Well, I use a local one. What state are you in?

Unknown Speaker  56:48
California? Okay,

Speaker 1  56:53
so it should be, you should be able to find a business accountant. And I would call three to five of them and just say, this is, this is what I did when I did when I was looking for an accountant. You want to ask them, have you been involved in acquisitions? Have you know, if so, how many? What were the sizes of the businesses? You know that you've that you've been involved in that acquisition process. And you just want somebody that is experienced, that's been there and done that. The one that I'm using right now, you know, he's, he's been involved in $10 million business purchases, you know. So that's good enough for me, you know, like, and he's been, he's been in a CPA for like, almost 20 years. So, okay, but yeah, just, just reach out and ask, you know, say, Hey, I'm this. This is what I'm considering doing. Do you have experience in this? And you want to be, you want to have a good rapport with them. You want to be able to talk to them and feel comfortable if they're, if they're a jerk, you know, don't work with them, right?

Speaker 6  57:56
And do they have to be the same state as you are? They

Speaker 1  57:59
don't have to. But I think it helps, you know, because the every state's got different regulations, and you want somebody that's that knows about taxes in the state of the business that you're bought, you know, the same state that the business is in, because there's just different requirements. So, so yeah, I mean, it's preferable. There are national accounting firms that can still do it, but, yeah, I would rather keep it in the same state,

Speaker 6  58:29
also in terms of charges. Like, what's the average? Like, 10% of the deal. How do they even charge?

Speaker 1  58:36
They charge by the hour. So they're generally about $200 an hour. Okay. Okay. I mean, it depends. I mean, might be more expensive in California. I wouldn't be surprised. Everything else is so no, and then an attorney is going to be 350, to 500 an hour, generally.

Unknown Speaker  58:57
Okay, good to know. Thank you.

Speaker 1  59:01
Great question, though, but there's a lot of resources. You know, don't, don't forget, you know, to just look through these. There's so many, so much stuff that's already out there to explain the SBA to. You know, if you want business plans, you know, different analyzation tools, real estate, I mean, you name it, there's, there's a lot of good stuff in here, even strategies on, you know, how to structure deals, all kinds of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  59:28
Okay, so it's under the resource bundle, right?

Speaker 1  59:31
Yeah, okay, yeah. And so, and you just download it. I would recommend downloading the entire folder. Just get that entire folder, that way you have it and you can, you know, you can figure out, you know what you like and what matters and what doesn't. Okay.

Speaker 6  59:49
All right. Thank you. No problem. Bye.

Speaker 1  1:00:04
Yeah, okay, so Janine, Janine asked the question. Said, I know this was covered in the past, but when we actually acquire a business, it makes more sense. Does it make more sense to write out the full term of the loan, or do we want to pay it off quicker? Just confirming so it depends on your personal goals. If you, if you need to, at the beginning, pull a salary from the business, you know, and you, you can still pull a salary, and everything's comfortable, and you're still paying the debt, that's fine. I mean, there's nothing, there's nothing wrong with going even the full lifetime of the loan. But just know, at year five, there's going to be a reset on that loan. It's going to be it's going to recalculate at year five, with the current rates, all commercial loans are like that. So I don't, right now rates are pretty low. Who knows what it's going to be in five years? You know, interest rates could be ridiculous. They could be way lower. I would much rather just pay it off before the five years, at least. But, you know, I I'm not necessarily. I don't need that cash flow to sustain my life, you know. So it just everybody. It depends on your situation. When I first started the first business, I was pulling money from it, and I didn't pay it off as quickly. The first one that I got a loan that, you know, the property management company that pay, I paid that off really, really quickly, because it was seller finance. But after that, you know you need that expendable income or disposable income, so it's, I mean, just depends on what you want to do. Has anyone looked into buying a parking lot or parking garage? I have not parking lot, like buying a parking lot in my area, because I kind of live, you know, in the Midwest, it's not as big as, like, buying a parking lot in a city, you know, where people are coming in all the time. But I think it's, I mean, it's got to be fairly passive, you know, you're not. There's no toilets that break, like real estate.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:21
I don't know, I wouldn't be opposed to it.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:33
And shanene, so the

Speaker 1  1:02:36
I submitted the purchase agreement for the latest auto repair shop that business, I will pay it off as quickly as possible, like I'm i in the reason, the reason why I say that is, well, let me, let me put this disclaimer in there. I'm not pulling any money from from that business at all for a salary, all of the money that all the profit that it makes, it's going to go right back into that bank account and sit and collect interest for a year if at the end of the year, I'm going to make a decision, do I grow into the other half of the building, because that's kind of part of the plan with this one, or do I not want to do that and I just pay the loan off, and then from that point on, it's buying short term rentals with the cash flow, so I don't have to pay the all the taxes on it, so that, that's kind of my decision there. But you know, every, every deal is different, and everybody's in a different situation when you purchase.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:37
So it's, it's just up to you?

Speaker 1  1:03:45
Yeah, well, you mean, with a 60 month reset, is that what you mean? Jenny, most of the time you don't get an option for that. It's automatically a five.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:56
Are they giving you that option?

Speaker 7  1:03:58
They actually, they attached a pre approval, SBA pre approval. And under the maturity of it, it says 120 months after the date of the choosing of the loan, or 60 months after the date of the, oh, I'm sorry, closing of the loan.

Speaker 1  1:04:13
Okay, so that's the that's the full term of the loan, 120

Unknown Speaker  1:04:18
months or 60 months. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:04:20
So, I mean, does it if the business, if the business can, can pay the debt, I mean, within five years, I mean, it's still, and it's still cash flows,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:33
absolutely, what's that? I think, yeah, absolutely, it could.

Speaker 1  1:04:38
Okay, well, I mean, it's a couple different things. So you can either just hold that money and use it on other things, or, you know, or it can go to interest. So, like, you're gonna pay a lot more interest over 120 month loan, you know, it's gonna be about double what you pay. So if you're gonna pay. Off early anyway, then why not go the 60 month? Right? That's interest.

Speaker 7  1:05:05
And when you, when you were just talking about your new auto repair shop, you said that you were going to take what you get from it and put it in an investment account.

Speaker 1  1:05:16
No, just because it's, it's going to be business funds, I'm not going to, I'm just going to put it right into a savings account, just a high interest savings account, okay, yeah, yeah. Just, just to make it, you know, completely safe. I mean, I don't want to sitting in a an account that's not, you know, a checking accounts, not going to make anything. So, at least, at least something. So, I mean, I'm expecting, you know, upwards of 300,000 on this one nice so that that would, that's what I'm hoping we'll see.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:47
We'll see. And

Speaker 7  1:05:48
then there's expansion possibilities. So, yeah, that's awesome.

Speaker 1  1:05:52
Yeah, yeah, that's kind of the idea. Because it was two, it was two sides the parts shop, and then then the repair. So I'm gonna, I don't want the parts, and they're liquidating all their parts, and then whenever they're done, they're done, and I have right of first refusal for the lease. We negotiated a price for the lease of the rest of the building, so I'll make that decision. If I don't think it can sustain it, then I won't. But if it can, I mean that, yeah, that's automatically, almost should be a double up in revenue, if I can expand like that.

Speaker 7  1:06:27
Fantastic. When do you think you're going to close?

Speaker 1  1:06:31
July 1 is what I proposed to them. So I'm hoping, I'm hoping that they sign it. There's going to be some back and forth. I'm sure I've been waiting the last couple days. I gave it to him two days ago, and he's supposed to get back to me and part of the part of it, once I sign it, I'll be able to start talking about it, because that should the NDA should be void. At that point, we'll see. I want to talk to him about it, because I want to do some posts from there. I don't know how they're going to feel about that. Oh, yeah. Oh, right for us. Yeah, exactly, exactly. I hope they allow it. If not, I'm definitely going to, you know, once I'm the owner, but until then, yeah, I don't know. I don't I think they'll be okay with it. We'll see, though,

Speaker 7  1:07:20
you seem to have been building rapport. So that's good, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:07:29
good question, though. So do you found a business?

Speaker 7  1:07:33
So I have a couple in the works. There's so there's this one. I'm so excited. It's a little higher than what I was looking for, but it's an environmental. I'm so sorry. Hold on one second. Let me pull it up. It's actually two businesses in one. It's an environment I would get out of this one now they have their sim and like, a zipped file, and I am not technologically sash. So going back, I was like, close it out. Okay. It is an environmental. Like cleanup company, and then critter cleanup is like the second company, and they do areas all around and they do, he gets, like, a lot of contractors, that's how and deals with, like, insurance companies and stuff like that. So again, it's a little higher, a lot higher than what I was hoping to spend. It's 999,000

Unknown Speaker  1:08:25
but the cash flow is like 637,000

Speaker 7  1:08:29
and I was, like, very skeptical at first, but at the broker is a reputable broker. They've been great throughout all of it. I actually put an LOI in back, like, I think, like, mid April, I was, I didn't beat, like, the competition the other person, they chose to go because that they offered more that fell through. I just found out today, and I'm getting on a call with the owner tomorrow.

Speaker 1  1:09:00
So, are they retiring? Is that the situation? Yes, okay. How long has it been going?

Speaker 7  1:09:08
Oh, my God. I think it's like 22 years or something.

Speaker 1  1:09:12
Oh, and you don't have to be certified to deal with critters.

Speaker 7  1:09:16
You do have to get, like, some hazmat training and stuff like that. I did hazmat in the Air Force, so I'm, like, somewhat familiar with it. And there's, there's a few other like training things, but I for the cash flow on it. It's, like, it just seems totally worth jumping through the hoops

Speaker 1  1:09:40
to get that, yeah, I mean, that's a great multiple

Speaker 7  1:09:44
it really is. So yes, I I'm doing, I'm doing what I can to make it happen. And then there's another one, a an auto repair shop about an hour and a half from me. And this was like they were naming, like the employees by name in the sim. They were so detailed in all of it, everything checked out, the cash flow on that is also fantastic. I think it's like 800 for the business, and like 350 I want to say 360 for the cash flow. And, let's see in the site, yeah, it just seemed really like they had, like, their stuff together. Great manager in place, great reviews. I am waiting. We've been kind of going back and forth on that. That seems to be further along then. Then I've, like, kind of been, so I've been getting excited about that one too. And then the third one is and I wasn't even looking for something like this, but just seemed kind of like low maintenance, and I would have, I already kind of have a driver if need be. But it was a route, and he was dropping off first aid items. So like, OSHA required, like, essential items to hotels, restaurants and just businesses throughout Manhattan and Long Island. And I'm familiar with Long Island, so that would kind of be, yeah, it was just, it seemed kind of like very easy to do it with. Tuesday and Thursday were the routes. It was the business is like 320 or 330 and the cash flow was like 160 and I could pay somebody like 26 to 30,000 a year to take that route on. Because, again, it's only like six hours a day on Tuesday and Thursday. And it just seems kind of, it just seemed good,

Speaker 1  1:11:46
yeah, those those businesses that are safety related, those are great businesses, because they have to, like their fire extinguishers, all their equipment, they have to keep up to date. They have to, they get inspections, and they can get fined huge amounts if they're not up to code on all that stuff. So I have a friend locally that her her dad started a business, and it was mainly just recharging fire extinguishers, and got a bunch of contracts with businesses in in three counties, and she makes stupid money, and she doesn't do anything like, and she didn't work for the business like, she just her dad gave it to her. And it's, yeah, it's, it's really, it's really amazing, how much is in the safety industry. It's, it's crazy, because there's so much regulation, and they're forced to do it, especially anything that has a fleet of trucks, a fleet of, you know, any heavy equipment that will have to have fire extinguishers available, like, all that kind of stuff, and they have to re up it, like, every six months, I think. So, there you go. I mean, it's recurring revenue and contracts. Yeah, I think that's a

Speaker 7  1:12:57
good one. Yeah, other things that I'm used to from, like, military days. So it's like, I'm like, keeping my eyes peeled for, like, that kind of stuff that's just essential kind of stuff. It seems to be very recession proof.

Speaker 1  1:13:13
Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely. I like, I mean, all three of those sound pretty good. There's a wide range of sizes

Unknown Speaker  1:13:18
there, though. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:22
I mean, you're gonna pick one, right?

Speaker 7  1:13:24
Absolutely, if, I mean, I'm gonna go forward with as far as I can with all of them. And whoever goes to the finish line, it's, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:13:32
yeah, yeah. I mean, it's, and you can do that, you know, that's part of the benefit of being a buyer. You can have multiple businesses under loi, but when you get to the purchase agreement, things are more serious. They become binding at that point. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't put more than one under a purchase agreement,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:50
right, correct? Yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:54
Well, cool. Thank you.

Speaker 1  1:13:56
Do you have, did have they given you any idea when they want to close when they like what's your what's your plan moving forward? I know the critter thing just came back around, but have you met with the owner or anything with

Speaker 7  1:14:09
no the broker for the route? He's He's not very he's not as responsive as I would like him to be. He, He makes it kind of seem like I am one of the only ones that, you know, not as interested in it. But that's like, moving forward. But he again, he's like, traveling all the time, and so I don't know, I that one doesn't look as promising, even though I would like it to the auto repair. We've been having a good conversation back and forth. He just, he was actually traveling. Also, I put an LOI in three days ago, I'm sorry, two days ago, and he's reviewing it, and it's with the seller, and we'll see.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:00
See Nice. Okay, cool. You self feed.

Speaker 1  1:15:08
Maybe might be the number two success story. We'll see awesome.

Speaker 7  1:15:13
I feel like everybody is, like, on the brink of something, but it's just, it's exciting, if it I don't know, I, I know it takes longer than, like, three months or so to find a business, but oh my gosh, it's like, the trenches out there. Sometimes it's like, it's exciting some days. And then when you get, like, a bunch of them, and then they don't, they all seem like they're going somewhere, and then they just get unresponsive, or whatever the case. Yeah, it's, you know, it makes it takes the sale out of your wins for like a day or two.

Speaker 1  1:15:51
Yeah, definitely, you have to be a glutton for punishment, yes, but it's worth it. It's totally worth it, absolutely okay. Well, congrats, that's cool. Thank you very much. Anybody

Unknown Speaker  1:16:12
else have any questions?

Speaker 1  1:16:18
Okay? I think so next week I might, because we talked about replit Tonight, maybe I'll do a class on replit, so that way, you know, whatever you need to create through there, we'll just get into that and that that might be fun, because it's probably the least tech involved of all the AI tools that allow you to create apps and stuff that I've used. So we can do that next week, and then maybe after that, Keith, we'll do the wholesaling,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:52
if you, if you're good with that about, yeah, awesome. Okay. Perfect.

Speaker 1  1:17:04
Yeah, I don't think you'd be able to get two SBA loans at the same time. They there. There's no hard guideline that says that you can't. Now there's, there's the $5 million limit for the seven a but then they also, they always recommend every lender says, you know, have some time in between them. So I don't think you'd be able to get more than one at a time.

Speaker 7  1:17:29
Yeah, it's okay. It's yeah. I think it would be nice to kind of have time to settle into a business also, so especially like the first one. But we'll see. I don't know, I'm excited, so I know I'm impulsive, so I'm like, I might find a way. You don't know, we don't know.

Speaker 1  1:17:47
I'm looking for one business to buy, so I'm going to buy three at once.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:52
I crazier things have been done.

Speaker 1  1:17:57
Yeah, I mean, there's, there's definitely something to be said for getting that experience of the first one, going through the whole process, getting comfortable, making sure you know, you have the time, you know, because I would never buy more than one at a time, because there's an intense period to set it up in that transition, like you need to be able to focus your time on getting things the way that you want them. You don't want to drop the ball after, you know, after you're committed. So I would definitely recommend taking it slow as far as that goes. Yes, agreed. You know, you found three in three months. You'll find, you'll find another three three months from now, if that's something you want

Unknown Speaker  1:18:37
to look, look for. Thank you. Do

Speaker 1  1:18:43
Yeah, no problem. A cool, okay, well, I'm gonna shut this down and I'm.
