Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're going to go to the mentorship portion.

Unknown Speaker  00:10
It is July 3, 2025

Speaker 1  00:14
just give a slight update on where I'm at in my latest acquisition. So it's been about two weeks now, finally got things basically normalized. It's usually it's a very intense two weeks where, you know, you're scrambling around, running, trying to get everything transferred over. You're trying to get all your your certificates and get the, you know, fire department in there to inspect it, if it's some, you know, if it's that type of business there, there's just, like, 1000 different things that you have to do. And that's what happens in the first two weeks. Then where I'm at now is it starts to slow down a little bit. You get your feet under you, you start allowing the manager to manage the business, right? And you start pulling away. So that's, that's where I'm at right now. Currently, it's going to be kind of weird in this one, because I'm doing seller finance for the inventory. It was not on the table to begin with in the deal, but it's, you know, they want, they want to get the old guy out, and so do I, like his family wants him to retire because he's got some health issues and everything. So it's should be a win, win situation. I'll try to do we've agreed already to a no down payment, seller finance option for the inventory, and I'll keep you guys posted on that, like what we end up negotiating and how that affects the numbers in the deal. But right now, things are going good, just kind of following the same pattern that these other acquisitions have. Yeah. So just want to, just want to re you know, reiterate that this is absolutely possible. It's scary every time. You know, don't think it's not scary, because it is, especially like a couple days before you sign the papers and you think, okay, you know, this is there's a lot of zeros on this check that I'm going to get, and there's an expensive lease, there's all this stuff that you're committing to, and It's easy to get overwhelmed and think that you shouldn't do it, or think that you're not capable of doing it, but you'd be surprised what you're capable of, as long as you do your research and you don't jump into something blindly. You know what the numbers are. You know what the common pitfalls are. You know you have enough money to make payroll for the first couple weeks. You know, you have enough money to make to for the lease for the first month. You know how the numbers are on that business. It's worth it. You know, somebody reached out to me or posted something in the community the other day. It was like, I found a good deal. And now I'm getting scared. And I mean, I get it like I think it's Cody Sanchez talks about her dad said that, you know, until it's 2am and you're sitting in your living room with your head in your hands in despair about what the hell you're going to do next. You don't know what it's like to be a business owner, and whether that's real dread or perceived dread. There are going to be times where it's going to feel like that, because it's a lot. It is. It's a lot. But fast forward a week later, and you're like, Oh, this is, this is actually what I was hoping it was going to be. This is the numbers are panning out, the manager's panning out, like all that stuff. But no matter what comes up, you can get through it, as long as it's a good deal and you do your work ahead of time. So I just wanted to throw that out there. I know Wally, you had a did you have a business that you were looking into the glass thing? I

Unknown Speaker  04:09
no Wally,

Speaker 1  04:14
okay. Well, does anybody have any questions patience? I know you've had a busy week, right? You got your financials, and did you do an LOI? You did your LOI? Did you make an offer?

Speaker 2  04:33
Patience? Oh, a holiday, yeah, it's the holiday. I get it. I totally get it. Shane, what about them in your current business? Do you have any like, accounts receivable? Like, how often do you get paid? Or do they pay you, like, right away, like, after service?

Speaker 1  05:00
Right away. So with one of the things I like about auto repairs, nothing lingers around. You don't have a big AR file. So if it's going to be a big job, then you know what the the parts are, and you know the approximate price of the parts. So you get an upfront payment to cover all the parts, because that's an out of pocket expense. If you start working on someone's car and you put $2,000 in parts and they never pay, then you're in trouble, right? So you want to get them to at least put a big down payment or pay for the parts before you start the service. This one, this one's a little so this one's different than the others, because it has a classic car like department and so generally, with auto repair, you have the hourly labor rate, which can be anywhere, depending on where you're at, from like $100 to like $180 per hour for labor. But when you have long term jobs, like somebody might bring in a classic Mustang and say, Okay, I want this list of things done to it. Well, obviously you can't charge someone. You should it just you can't charge someone $150 an hour and put a month into that vehicle. Just not, it's not going to work. So it's generally like, if it's over 100 hours, then it's $60 an hour. If it's less than 100 at 70. So those come at like an installment. They will pay the parts, and then you do the labor to get what whatever those parts are, and, you know, put in, and then they'll come back in and pay that bill, and then you have a list of the other parts. So it's kind of like a iterative process, and that's something that I'm trying to learn, because I haven't done that in other shops before. It's been more small scale, you know, regular car, you know, you want an inspection and you need a muffler, stuff like that. So, so it's been a little little different, but it's actually pretty cool, because when

Unknown Speaker  07:04
when things are slow,

Speaker 1  07:08
you have something that's still going on, you know, ongoing, because it's an up and down process. Sometimes you have business, sometimes you don't, you take the average of everything that's your revenue. But I kind of like that model.

Speaker 2  07:19
It's kind of cool, nice. And what about the, like, the parts wise, you're not going to carry, like, the whole inventory, right for the old cars, so some of them you have to order. What if, let's say you don't have it locally, and you have to wait, like, submit an order online, and it will take time, right? So in that case, the customer is going to wait, or do you have to pay more and get it like locally?

Speaker 1  07:50
Well, so usually, so if it's a domestic car, you can pretty much get it locally. Most of the places like O'Reilly and AutoZone, places like that. You get, you get an account with them to where you you don't pay taxes on it, and they give you, like, a 20% break on the on the cost. So then, you know, you're so you get a 20% break on it. You're marking it up about 40% so really, the customer's only paying about 20% higher to get those parts than they have if they would go get them themselves. But if it's a part that you like, a an import, or something that you have to order, then you can generally still get that shift overnight, so you don't have to keep a big inventory. That's another thing where the shop has been different, is they have a whole part section with 1000s and 1000s and 1000s of parts. And that was the old owner. He thought that that's what people wanted. He wanted a lot of parts on hand, so they bring their car in and they get it fixed. They don't have to wait. They're in and out the same day. Well, most modern shops, it's just not like that. You know, it's maybe overnight or something like that. And people tend to not care about that. It's not going to really lose business. Whereas you can take the the section that you would use for inventory, and you can put more auto repair in there, because if you think about margins in any commercial building, you know you have business going on in there. It's all about revenue per square foot. And you have, you have to do some analysis and think, okay, the repair portion is doing this much revenue per square foot. Now the parts are doing half of that. It doesn't make sense to keep parts in there and take up valuable commercial space. Just have parts sit for a year, two years, three years before they're sold. Yeah, there's a good margin on it, but the opportunity cost of missing out what you could have done for repair or something else is huge. And a lot of people, especially older owners, they just think, well, this is the way I've always done it, and it works, and I'm not I would never. Or, you know, deny that it does work, but is it the best way to make money in that space? And generally, no, if you think about an auto repair shop, can get $150 an hour for that same, you know, 200 square feet, and they're making $10 an hour, if you, if you figure it out over the year of holding those parts there, it just doesn't make sense. So yeah, most shops nowadays, they don't even keep them, and they keep oil filters, oil spark plugs, that's it, everything, and maybe some tires or something, everything else. They just order and all the parts places bring it right to you same day, within an hour, and you're good to go. Yeah, that's nice. Yeah. I mean, it didn't used to be like that 10 years ago, but Amazon has changed the world when it comes to shipping. And you know, thank you, Jeff. You know, you've done a lot of horrible things to our economy, but you've definitely changed that.

Speaker 2  10:59
So personally, I like to use the rock auto for the parts. It's a lot cheaper than, like, AutoZone or rally, but the only downside is you have to wait like, three or five days, yeah, to get to you, and you have to pay for shipping too. It's not a lot, but the like, I found it on Tiktok, and I love it. It's great they have for all cars here, like all parts, like the original as well.

Speaker 1  11:31
So we always at all the shops. We try to source everything local first. So you know, if you the software has it all integrated into their into the parts portion of the software, and you can go search for the part number. It'll show you who has it available, how much it is. If it's available locally, you just source it for the cheapest one, and then you order it. They bring it to you. If it's not available, then we generally use like world pack, SSF, MPE, MPI. If it's like an import car, there's a bunch of companies out there. The problem with those companies is, if you do need it overnight, it's like 30 bucks shipping and handling sometimes, which is not that big a deal if it's $1,000 part, but if it is, if it's a $20 part, you know. So those expenses, if the customer wants it quickly, I'll get passed along to them. So that makes it steep.

Speaker 2  12:26
So the software does that search, right? So you have to, like,

Speaker 1  12:30
Yeah, as long as you, as you integrate it in there, yeah, it's part of it. They have about, like, job search websites like, Indeed, indeed, looks at Monster, it looks at LinkedIn, it looks at all. It's like a aggregate site. So they have a couple sites built in that are also aggregate platforms that source to these other places, and you end up paying a little bit more, but the convenience of it is great. And then if you order through there, it records to your your QuickBooks, or whatever you have for accounting that's already built in, like, it's, it's, that's, it's the convenience of it makes it worthwhile. Yeah, I agree. Because, you know, it's all about your time, like, I don't want to be sitting around reconciling spreadsheets with receipts and stuff like that. That defeats the purpose of what we're trying to do, right?

Speaker 3  13:27
So, Shane, in terms of your the structure of all the your businesses in general. So do you? Do? You pay yourself a salary and and and then you split. Because so from what I've read, correct me if I'm wrong, and I think this applies to LLCs in general, but if you were to, for example, set up everything as LLC taxed as an S corp, you'd be able to pay yourself the taxable salary, and everything after that that you collect

Unknown Speaker  14:00
is tax free,

Speaker 3  14:03
and that does that work with like, just one or 10 businesses, no matter how many you have,

Speaker 1  14:08
it does. Yeah, it doesn't matter how many it's a it's a business by business. So it depends on how much profit you're making on each business justifies the tax structure. So when, if I'm trying to pay one off, I generally am not taking a salary at all, like if I'm trying to build I'm not going to take a salary. When I, when I first started this, I was taking a salary, obviously, because I needed the extra help. But once I got financially, financially comfortable, personally, I generally put everything back in into the business, like, you know, to pay it off, and then even when I'm actually pulling a salary, I'm not taking that salary, I'm going to get another loan with that as the down payment to buy real estate. So I still don't end up paying taxes on it, because all of that interest. Is deductible, you know, yeah, so it's it, that's what it's about right now, for me, is like, whatever I do pull I'm just, I'm not taking it and putting it in a bank account or using it day to day. I'm just pushing it to other assets that are going to make money. It's like, you know, one of the best strategies you can ever do if you have a portfolio of stocks, you know, there's, there's a difference between, you know, taking money from the fund, from from your stocks, or getting a loan against your stock portfolio. If you get a loan against your stock portfolio, say you have $100,000 in stocks, you still have that $100,000 in stocks. It's still getting dividends, it's still appreciating, still do everything it's going to do, but you have a loan against that, so you might have a lien, but then you have, say, you get 40,000 that you then put on real estate or whatever, invest somewhere else that's also making money, that's also there's interest on that, which lowers how much taxes you would normally pay capital gains. So you end up not paying capital gains. You have multiple assets. Instead of just the the stock portfolio, it's all making money. You're not paying taxes on any of it. So I kind of applied that same concept to the businesses where it'll earn money, but rather than me take it and pay taxes on it, you know, which, obviously I still pay taxes when I pull a salary, but I get it back because it's a deduction because of what I'm doing with it. So that's the name of the game right there. It's like, it's this elaborate shell game where you're just moving it around in ways that you're dodging taxes legally, and if you do that for long enough, you end up with so many assets that you don't care about taxes because you have so you know, you've earned so many assets, but you have to sacrifice and not live lavishly while you're doing this, because it's very tempting when you, you know, you've got a business that's producing 25,000 a month in profit. You know, it's hard not to go out and buy a Corvette or, you know, go on these vacations or whatever. But if you, if you stick to the plan and like that, the decade of decadence, if you put it back into the business, you put it into real estate, you keep doing then in 10 years, you never have to worry about anything. So yeah, so I'm not now. I granted I have a luxury of I make good money in my nine to five my regular job, so I don't need it for security anymore, like and then just the real estate in general, that also was passive income to where I don't have to. So I'm able to just take all that money, put it right back to paying off the loans, right back to building the business, right back to getting other businesses.

Unknown Speaker  17:56
Did I answer your question, or

Unknown Speaker  18:00
did I did a lot of talking.

Speaker 3  18:03
Yeah, no, you definitely, you definitely answered it and more, which I appreciated the more as well.

Speaker 1  18:08
So okay, yeah, taxes, if you don't, if you don't understand taxes, or have someone helping you that really understands taxes, you're just shooting yourself in the foot. There's so many people out there that are, they've got a C Corp when they, you know, and they're making 30 grand a year, and it's like, you know, paying double taxes, they've or they've got, I don't know, that's what I see more, more often than not, because they go on Tiktok and they say, oh, I need a C Corp. And then I need a holding company, and I need this and I need to move this money around, make money first, figure out your taxes later. Don't get all fancy, you know, I, I was helping somebody that wanted to get into real estate. This was last year. They had, like, eight LLCs that they had made ready for real estate. You know how many properties they had bought, zero, but they had eight LLCs ready buy a property, then get an LLC. You can always quit, claim it and put it in later. People just they jump ahead because they get excited, and they think, Okay, I'm not ready to buy the real estate, but I can do this, this and this first, but there's a time and a place and you know, there's you should be fast sometimes, but most of the time financially slow is better.

Unknown Speaker  19:30
That's just the way it is.

Speaker 2  19:35
Quick question, What about like from the tax perspective? How do you move those funds between LLCs? Like you mentioned, you don't take salaries, but use the money to purchase, like a real estate or maybe like other ventures.

Speaker 1  19:53
No, I take us. I take a salary, but I don't you. I put that money directly into the real. State. So the deductions from the real estate means I don't really pay money on you know, I get, well, you pay initially on the taxes. Obviously, you have to get everything deducted out of your taxes like you normally would, but you get so much back at the end of the year because of all the deductions from the real estate that it's like you don't pay taxes on it. So, yeah, you have to. You can't just have the business buy a single family home. If it's a real estate business that's different, if it's property management, that's different, you can directly do it, but like it would, it would be a red flag. If I have a plumbing company that buys, you know, an Airbnb, they'd be like, what, you know what's going on here this, you know. So you have to go that roundabout way, so you're paying taxes on it, but you're getting it back. That's what I had to learn the hard way, because the first couple years I wasn't getting it back, I was just paying taxes.

Unknown Speaker  20:58
Then I learned, yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  21:01
don't like paying taxes.

Speaker 1  21:06
I was thinking now with the BBB, if it does pass, I don't know if it will, but it's looking like it probably will. 100% bonus depreciation should be back. It's passed today. It did it okay. I missed it.

Speaker 2  21:19
I think it's going to be signed tomorrow on holiday by President as a lawyer.

Speaker 1  21:25
There you go. 100% bonus depreciation. So that is right on time. So I don't know if I told you about I was able to negotiate in this, in this acquisition, $200,000 in equipment. A large chunk of this was so usually an owner will want to lower the amount of equipment that price and equipment on your purchase agreement, and raise the amount of goodwill, because it helps them on their taxes. But because there was a death in this family, and it was ended up being through a trust, they don't have any tax obligation when they sell, when they sell this, since they sold it. So I was able to pump that up. So with bonus depreciation on equipment, I'm going to get with 100% bonus depreciation, that's going to be like $150,000 in tax deductions for 2025

Unknown Speaker  22:22
because of bonus depreciation.

Speaker 1  22:26
So that gives you a lot of leeway. You know, even if you're struggling in the business, if you think about how much tax you're paying, and then at the end of the year, you get say, that's gonna that means that you'll get every single dime you pay in taxes, back on your regular job, on other businesses, pretty much like everything, will come back in a huge in a huge way, and then you automatically have something else. You have enough money to go buy another one, right? So there, there's so much nuance to this, and it's just a matter of starting. That's the hardest part, guys, is just actually saying, Okay, this is the business. I'm going to make it happen, and I'm going to struggle. I know I'm going to struggle for a little while, but I'm going to figure it out. And then these dominoes just they start falling, and you can see how they all relate to one another. But the hardest step is the first step. Well, that's cool, that's cool. I don't know about the other stuff in there, but I love that the bonus depreciation is really going to help anyone that's trying to buy a business, anyone that's doing real estate, anyone like that just has a small business in general, needs equipment like it, that will be a huge thing, but it makes the short term rentals even better. Yeah, and if you don't have enough deductions or enough income to you know you, you show all those losses that like that 150 Those are good forever. Those just go on your file, and you can continue to deduct every year from that pot until it's gone. So, yeah, yeah, just it keeps carrying over. Yeah, that's nice. Yeah, yeah. For your lifetime, there's, there's no limit on that.

Unknown Speaker  24:19
So yeah, that's, that's definitely nice, interesting.

Speaker 2  24:28
Shane, what about like for other shops? Yeah, I was just looking, and there's my snow, and there are some, but it's more like a franchise, yeah, like nationwide franchises, is it? I mean, uh, it's a good business to buy, or we should look for like, more like a mom and pop.

Speaker 1  24:47
I Okay, so there's a, there's a huge difference between the way that franchise, like corporately owned auto repair works, and Mom and Pop, like independently owned.

Unknown Speaker  24:59
I. Um, the margins

Speaker 1  25:05
for the owner are much larger for independently owned but it's probably safer to buy a franchise because you you get so much support. You get hiring, you get systems, you get suppliers like, they're able to negotiate low parts, you know, prices and things like that, but they take a large chunk. The way I feel about franchises in general, the only way that I would ever be a franchisee is if I bought, like, created a new franchise location. Like, if I was going into a city, they, like, say, what is it? What's one of the franchise locations? Five? No, not five guys, good guys, good guys, auto repair that. I think good guys is a franchise. So you could say you can win into a city and they don't have a good guys like that would be, to me, a fairly safe investment to start one. Now, if I saw one listed that was already there, it doesn't make as much sense to me, because you you don't get the benefits that you would. So when, when you're starting a new one, you have the benefits of they're going to set everything up for you. They're going to, you know, help you with software. They're going to help, you know, starting from scratch. It's better to start from scratch with a franchise than it is on your own, but if it's already there, you don't get a lot of benefits from it. You just end up with potentially, a 10% franchise fee on the gross revenue. So if you're making 50 grand a month, you know you have to pay them 5000 regardless, you might not clear. You might only make 4000 but you got to pay them five they don't care. So, yeah, I would much rather the goal with with any of those businesses like that is to buy an independently owned one, make it operate as efficiently as a corporately owned one, make it clean and nice and advertise Well, look good, and do all the same things that they're doing, and then sell it to them at some point, that's where you you know your exit strategy for mom and pop businesses, if that's what you're looking to do. If you want to keep them forever, you sell to those corporate

Speaker 2  27:30
Thank you. And I guess, and you can change a lot of things, right? If you're a franchise, so you have to follow the system, right? Yeah.

Speaker 1  27:40
Yeah. Yeah, it's a mixed bag. I would, I would much rather just do my own thing, but I would like to, if I was going to get, and this might seem a little weird, if I was going to do a franchise, it would probably be a scooters. And I know that's, you know, that's coffee, that's a little scary, that's, that's, but I like Scooter's model because there's, it's small little place. It doesn't take up a lot of money in real estate. Doesn't take a lot of a large building. They have cheaper. They're competing right now with seven brew and Starbucks, all the big ones, Einstein's, and they're doing really, really well. If you look at those reports for how franchises are doing, it's because they have little overhead. I go to them. I go to scooters all the time. They have great coffee. There's never the owner. If every time you ever go look at one of those scooters, you're never going to see an owner in there, ever. I've been to dozens of those things, and I've never seen anyone over 20. You are 25 in the business, so it's obviously has a model that works for remote or absentee owners. So yeah, I would, I might consider violating my no food no drink policy for something like that, but only if it was to start a new location in a city that didn't have one, I wouldn't buy one that's already there.

Unknown Speaker  29:08
Okay, yeah, that's good to know.

Speaker 2  29:11
Thanks. I think even like, I've seen like Cordy Sanchez, she doesn't like franchisees as well.

Speaker 1  29:21
Yeah, I don't know Cody. The thing with Cody, right, is Cody's really close with Adam. I don't know Cody's like, so intertwined with the corporate world, and coming from big finance to where they do, like corporate retreats and all of this corporate culture and stuff. And you that stuff does not translate to a regular, you know, gritty local business. I don't know. It just doesn't. And you know, she's, she's big on the Dave Ramsey stuff, too. He doesn't want to use debt. And I think that's that's great if you can find seller financing. But these days, it's really difficult to find seller financing, and if you do, most of those owners are trying to, you know, hand off something that might be a stinker. You know, it's been passed over by other, you know, qualified buyers. So that's what I'm seeing lately, anyway, is like anything that says, you know, we offer seller financing. It's almost like a red flag these days,

Speaker 2  30:36
and with a recent rule changes, right? It's, it's even more difficult, right?

Speaker 1  30:41
Yeah, well, I mean, 100% seller financing is the same as it ever was, but I think so. I was talking to a broker that's my last week or the week before, and he said that things are so crazy right now. Where he so he would list a business, and he would get, you know, maybe 10 inquiries in a week. Now he, if he lists the business, he's getting 100 inquiries in a week. So I don't know if it's a social media effect. I don't I would imagine that has a big, you know, a lot to do with it. But, you know, I think it was, I don't know somebody a few weeks ago was talking about that like they can't get a call back from brokers, and that's why, that's why the, you know, there's, there's so many people trying to do this that may or may not be serious, but it's messing it up for people that are serious. I like that. A lot more people want to buy a business but I hate that it's, it's messing it up for regular people that are truly serious So, but, yeah, that's a big difference. That's tenfold, so no wonder. I think it'd be good to be a business broker right now. I would be looking to I would I love to buy a business broker business? I haven't ever seen one for sale, though, but that'd probably be a good business model, because they don't do much, don't tell them. I said that.

Speaker 2  32:17
Yeah, I think I have seen like here in Texas, they were not expensive, around like $100,000 but there was just one person brokerage, so probably remote, yeah, I don't know the details, yeah. So they, they usually they make like, one or two or 3% right from the

Speaker 1  32:42
of the total, something like that. It's it's less than real estate. But then a lot of them have monthly fees. They incorporate other fees like, you know, because they'll do the OM and they'll come in and look at financials, like a lot of times they'll charge for a lot of that stuff, a lot of hidden fees in there, because that's a lot of work to come into a business, especially an aging business, most of them aren't set up to sell. It takes about a year to set up a business, to prep it for sale, to make sure all the financials are right, that everything is documented, like all the things that you know, we've been talking about that you need to see most regular businesses don't have all that stuff. They have to work toward it. You know, get what's a buyback, what's not like all that stuff has to be analyzed. If they own their own real estate, are they paying themselves rent? If they're not, they need to pay themselves rent because they need to, excuse me, go on the financials, because it all matters. So yeah, I think that's about an average, probably a year to set one up to sell. Anybody have any questions? Gam or patience Wally on July 3, before the holiday. Okay, all right, let me go ahead and shut this down.
