Speaker 1  00:02
Hey, everyone. This is Shane from the money Language Academy. It is July 3, 2025 and tonight, what we're I wanted to talk about was business credit versus personal credit. And then we've delved into that before, and kind of the difference and why you start an LLC, and the ways that you do it. But I'd like to dig a little deeper into that and just show you the benefits of having an LLC and having business credit in that LLCs name, whether or not you're actually using it and you're trying to get deductions on your taxes, whatever your strategy is, there are benefits to having a an LLC with business credit. And I'm hoping to to just kind of pull the veil away from that, so you can see how awesome it can be, because most of the time I use business credit. I mean, there's certain, you know, I can't buy groceries on business credit, obviously, but like gas vehicles. You know, any, anytime I travel, I can, pretty much, because I have a real estate like a property management company, I can travel to another state, I can travel to Hawaii. And because there is might be a property I want to look at, all I have to do is document that and say, Okay, I want to look at this property for a potential purchase. There you go. That's a business trip. If you go for a long, long term, you put something at the beginning and something at the end, so to justify your stay there, and then your whole stay at the Airbnb or the hotel or whatever, all tax deductible. But there's safe ways to do it, and there are dangerous ways to do it. And a lot of people on social media will tell you, you know, you can do this, this, this and this, but you're just asking for essentially an audit, you know, and you know, potential litigation and things like that. So you have to be very careful when it comes to that, but, but there are the right way and the wrong way to do it. So that's kind of what I want to talk about and and get into, because it doesn't matter where you're at in your investing career. You know, it takes less than 100 bucks to start your own LLC. You can get get structured in the right way, and you can go just get one card. So to just give you some, some background. So I just got a chase sapphire card for the newest business, and that was 30,000 just just one card that that was 30,000 and you know, you because of the way I buy these businesses as an asset sale, you can't use the history of the business. They ask you for projected revenue, and you can put anything in there. And so you they just hand you a credit card with a $30,000 limit. So it's, it's pretty wild, but as long as you do it the right way and you do it safely, it can be, it can be very beneficial. So let me share my screen here. So what you have to understand is what business credit is, why it matters, and then how you can use it to benefit your personal, life and your business. So we've talked about it several times before, but business credit is different than personal credit in several ways. So it's completely separate. It reports to different agencies. Yeah, these days, you have to use your personal credit in order to qualify for business credit. There's going to be generally a hard inquiry that goes along with that, that you might be able to get removed if you if you know how to do it, but there's going to be a hard inquiry. But after that, after you get the card, it does not affect your personal credit unless you don't pay. So if you don't pay, then they're going to file a claim on your personal credit. You'll have a black mark on your, you know, your Experian, Equifax, TransUnion, things like that. But as long as you keep paying, it doesn't even matter if you max that thing out. If you've got a $20,000 limit and you have, you know, $20,000 charged on it, if you're paying the minimum payment every single month, it's not going to affect your personal credit in any way. It's not going to show, you know, high utilization like you get on your personal credit. It's not going to keep you from getting additional personal credit cards or loans or anything like that, because it's completely and totally separate. So where your personal credit reports to Equifax, TransUnion and Experian, the business credit generally reports to like Experian business each of the big three have their own bits of business section, or, you know, possibly done in Bradstreet, but it's not going to ever commingle with yours unless you don't pay. So the personal guarantees that you put on that card only matter if you don't pay. So just be careful and know that it's not free money. It's not something you go get a business credit card and you go buy a car with it, and you do whatever. Eventually they're going to come out. After you you have to pay for it, but until, as long as you keep it in good standing, you're good. So like I was saying, the utilization, utilization does matter somewhat in business credit cards, but it's not going to affect your personal credit. So if you Max one out, it's going to affect how you know, how many other business credit cards you can get in that business name, but it's only in that business. So you can start another LLC, start from scratch with another card, and it does not commingle with that other business. It's it's like you're creating little clones that you can get credit for. Yes, I spelled utilization wrong. I apologize for that. And then it's different metrics than personal credit. So like I was saying, the utilization, that's one, the way that it reports, is different. It's a whole different equation behind the scenes, to show you know what your business credit is going to be, it's all about in personal credit, it's all about keeping your utilization way down, and, you know, paying off as quickly as possible with business credit, you can lumber along with high utilization as long as you're paying it every single month, you're generally good. It's not going to be any kind of a mark against that business credit. And like I said, it reports to different agencies. So how do you get the best business credit? I know we've talked about this before, but I want to go into it again for people that may not have seen the LLC class, and it's pretty straightforward. You know, make sure that your business has the right name. You don't want it to be your personal name. It should not be, you know, Bob's Burgers. If you want to put your name on it in some way, put your initials, you know, BJs, and then add solutions, enterprises, consulting, management, that kind of stuff to the end. It should be very generic and not have anything about trucking, about real estate, about any anything specific. Just keep it very watered down. And then you have to get an EIN which is free from the federal government. You need a professional address. Now, it used to be okay to have a like an I postal, virtual address. Now what I'm being told is that it really affects how much credit you're going to get. So if it's a virtual address, you're going to get knocked down several $1,000 just because of that, or maybe even denied last year or two years ago, it didn't matter that was a legit address, but now things are a little different. So there are other agencies out there where you can go get a brick and mortar address. It costs a little bit more, but even if you get it temporarily and then you can change it later, get it for a month, get your credit card that you want with the limit that you want, and then shut it down and change the address later, totally fine. There's nothing wrong with that, because some of those are expensive, like $100 a month, and nobody wants to pay that. You need a dedicated business telephone line that's still fun. Do a Google Voice. You just don't want it to be personal. It should not be your personal cell phone. It should not be your spouse's personal phone. It should be Google Voice, any of those you know, phone companies that allow you to do that, and then you need a legit email so you can get an email for like, 10 bucks a month, even more expensive ones, like Wix. You know, you can go to Wix and get a domain, pay eight to 10, maybe 20 bucks a month at most, and get a couple of email addresses where it's, you know, Bob at Bob's burgers.com you know, instead of, you don't want to, you don't want it to be Bob's Burgers, one@gmail.com because that's a red flag you can get flagged by every algorithm, every every person that actually pushes the button to accept your credit application. So it's just it's an easy one for them to deny you or give you like you don't want to go through this take a personal, hard inquiry, and end up with a $2,000 limit business credit card that's not helping you. You want to get 1020, $30,000 because then you can you have the ability to make big moves in your life. And then, if you want to go after a line of credit or a business loan or something like that, you want long term credit with this LLC, you're going to need a website, because somebody is actually going to look your business up. They're going to google it, and you should have some kind of a web presence. So once you get this credit card, what can you actually do with it legally? And you know, not put yourself in a bind. I see people on Tiktok all the time talking about, well, I bought this car, I leased this car, and I put it all on credit, and I never paid it, and whatever. Well, they're going to come after you. You can, you know, if you buy a car on business credit, and you don't ever pay for it, and you can't justify what you bought it for? Fraud, eventually you're going to, you know, they're going to get their money somehow. I don't care if you file bankruptcy, what's going on. You can't just go get business credit and use it for anything that. That's not how life works. There was a time when you can do net 30 accounts and get, you know, non personal, guaranteed credit cards and and do that, and they couldn't come after you. Those days are long over. It doesn't work like that. That's why they put a PG on all these cards, because it sooner or later they want their money. But there are so many advantages. So you can travel, you can just use the points and the miles so, so the the last this current auto repair shop, we do, you know, 20 grand a month in parts. We buy parts, and then, you know, resell them to the customers as they need them. They come in for their car to get diagnosed, they say, okay, it needs a tie rod. And we order a tie rod on the credit card. It comes in, we sell it to the customer, and then we pay that back, right? But the points still add up. And where do those points go to the owner? Right? In the form of frequent flyer miles, cash back, free stuff from like Adidas, Nike, like, whatever it is that you are into. That's one obvious advantage right there, even if you're just using it for personal stuff, same thing high end experiences. So you can, if it's legitimate, you can take, you can take, like an employee to a really nice restaurant and have a business meeting. You can take an employee to, like a team building exercise, and go on a vacation style thing, but you have to be very careful with that one, because you have to justify it. You have to have everything logged. You can't just, you know, randomly go off on vacation and think it's going to be fine. But the ones that benefit you personally, you can use the home office. You can, like your internet, I'm going to talk about the home office kind of pitfalls, but just know that you can write off a certain amount of your your home office and put that on a business credit card, personal vehicle, like a lease. You can do that too. And if you put the lease on there, you pay the lease through the card, and you pay the card off immediately with the grace period, with, before the grace periods hit, it's free cash back, free rewards, business dinners, as long as it's legitimate, and then health programs, so you can actually get insurance on the business credit card for you personally, you can get FSAs, Things like that, like all that stuff, is legitimate business expenses, and it just legitimizes them a little bit more if you put it on a business credit card, because that's business only credit now, if you're trying to put this stuff on your personal credit card and then expense it, it becomes an issue, because you've pierced that corporate veil. You you can't do that. And then, if you get enough business credit, we've talked about this several times with capital stacking. You can buy real estate with it. You can buy, invest any kind of investment. I don't care what it is. You can buy baseball cards and then resell the baseball cards, whatever it whatever it is that you're into. And you know, you can make money on you can use the credit to buy that when you have the ability to get credit whenever you need it, it opens up so many possibilities that you wouldn't normally have. If you see, you know, John down the street has a motorcycle that you know is worth $10,000 and he's in a bind, and he's trying to sell it for 3000 There you go. Get get the cash, get that motorcycle, sell it right, make a quick $3,000 when you're broke and you don't have any credit, you can't normally do that. So here's what the IRS looks for when it comes to business credit, where you can get in trouble. Okay, they want to know whether the expense was and in the tax code, it says ordinary and necessary for your trade or business. So you have to be very careful, like, if you're going to go on a trip, like to Hawaii, like I said, if you have a real estate investment company that's looking for real estate, that's, that's pretty good, that's, that's actually going to work if you you can go to Hawaii, look at a investment property. Maybe go to some sort of a convention or get together for real estate while you're there. But you have to book in those things. So if you go for a week, day one needs to be something real estate related, day seven needs to be something real estate related, then you can deduct the whole thing. It's all a business expense. Otherwise, you can't just go on a trip and do whatever you want. That's not how it works. You need all the receipts. You need just in case, you need all that stuff to give your accountant, or in case you get audited at some point, you're like, Okay, here's all my stuff. I went there to this convention, blah, blah, blah. Now home office. This is one that people talk about on Tiktok all the time. They say the Augusta rule, and they say home office, and those two things, things can get you in big trouble. The Augusta rule is you can, like, rent out your house to other people for, like, a weekend, and then you can deduct a certain amount of your housing expenses. Don't do that. I'm just telling you right now, multiple CPAs have told me that you're better off to not even try anything at all with the Augusta rule, you're better off to just just let it go. Okay, but the home office, like, if you're using the home office for anything other than that particular business, you know, if you've got a regular job, like a nine to five and you're using it, you can't deduct everything from that home office. You can only deduct a certain portion of it. So a lot of people make the mistake of, maybe they work from home, but they have an LLC, and they're trying to deduct everything through the LLC for that home office. You can't do that. You have to split it up and in the amount of time that you use for each Yeah, use. It must be used regularly for business. And, you know, it can't just be your living room. It has to be a dedicated home office. You know, you're not watching TV in there, that kind of stuff. Now, vehicle deductions, so a lot of people will try to deduct 100% of their personal vehicle. And you there's really a couple of strategies there. You either do mileage or you do like a lease, and then you can, if you're going on a trip for the business, then you can deduct the gas for that specific trip. But you have to be very, very careful. When it comes to your personal vehicle, you need to log the mileage. There's a bunch of apps that you can use to log your mileage. When it's actually in it'll take, you know, GPS, like, snapshot of where you start and where you end up, so you have it. It's all nice and verified in case anything ever happens. I was using a platform, an app called Jinji, j, e n, j, i, but it actually crashed on me, and I lost a bunch of logging records. So I've abandoned that one. I'm actually I'm looking for one's a little bit better than that, but so it just depends on what you're trying to do. So sometimes it's a better option to lease a vehicle under the business name and track the mileage. And sometimes it's it's better to just deduct the percentage of the total cost of that car, depending on how much you use it for the business. But just know that all of those things have to be justified. Okay, so I'm probably going to end up on this, this newest one, I'm going to get a little truck, probably put a wrap on it that advertises the business, and I'll drive that back and forth when I need to. And then when I'm not using it, it'll stay at the business, and the employees can use it to go get what they need to do in that kind of situation. Basically everything is deductible. Like it's very obvious that that vehicle is used for business only now, if I would happen to take that truck and go to, you know, a city and pick up somebody from the airport that's in my family and bring them home. Obviously, I can't deduct that mileage, right? There's the difference. Something else is that's a red flag for the IRS, is if you continuously lose a lot of money on your LLCs. They're not dumb. They know that if you lose $50,000 a year for three or four years on an LLC, that any normal person is going to shut that business down. They're not going to continue to hemorrhage money like that one or two years, okay? Or even if you get you know, you need to show some kind of revenue from that if you're going to deduct huge expenses from it. So just, just be careful about that. If you have 10 LLCs, and they're all losing 50,000 a year, and you don't pay anything in taxes, you're asking for an audit, and it's going to, I know people are saying, oh, Trump got rid of all the IRS agents, and you have to worry about it. Well, they still use, they use AI to analyze tax returns, and it spits out a report of people that, you know they may have these red flags, and they're going to randomly pick people out of there, and they're still going to get audited. So just be careful. You don't want to end up on that report, that's what you're trying to prevent. Okay? And then, you know, they might determine that your business is a hobby and not actually a business. So you know, if you're a baseball card collector, and you're getting a bunch of baseball cards and putting them, you know, in your man cave, and you don't ever sell anything, you don't ever show a profit, that's a hobby. You're a collector. You're not in business. Okay, so here's one thing. You can get a business credit card and an LLC name, and as long as you don't expense that stuff and try to deduct that from your taxes, you can pretty much do whatever you want to with them. The. IRS, the credit card companies do not report your regular charges to the IRS. WHO reports charge? WHO reports things to the IRS? Are like merchant companies. So stripe Venmo, PayPal, Clover companies like that, where people are paying you as a merchant, that stuff is all all recorded and sent to the federal government. But if you just have a regular business credit card and you're buying whatever you want to buy back and forth, paying it off, and you don't include that as a potential deduction on your taxes, you're fine. It's not going to throw up any red flags, because you're not trying to cheat on your tax your taxes. You're just using, you know, you're mingling stuff together. So you can actually do that. I know a lot of people that do it. I personally tried to stay away from that, because I think you're, you're in a little bit of a gray area there. But I know I have a friend that he He probably hasn't used a personal credit card in 10 years, you know, but he doesn't put that on his taxes as a deduction or anything. He just uses the business credit card for literally everything he buys. So he can keep that it's like a $50,000 card. He can keep that high in the 40s and pay the minimum payments and pay it down and pay it down and pay it down, and his credit stays in the eight hundreds, right? Whereas I don't care you know how much credit you have on personal cards, you're going to take some hits on that much debt and credit card debt, so as long as you don't try to make deductions with it, you're good. Needs to be legit. You got to keep things separate. And you know, credit is for cash flow. Credit's not so you can go on vacation, it's not so you can do things that you normally can't afford. But if you use it the right way to buy things that make you money, then it can be life changing. But if you go the other direction, it can bear you in a mountain of debt that you can't dig out of. So be very, very careful. And if you use it for day to day, if you're not the type of person that can pay it off quickly and not, you know, reap those huge 25 30% aprs, then don't do this. Don't even go after it, because it requires discipline. I'll put something on a credit card today, within the week, it'll be paid off like I don't leave any balances on there. But I do that because I get the cash back and I get it's just free money coming back to me. You know, if you have the discipline to do it, so avoid commingling the personal and business expenses if you're expensing to the IRS and trying to show that as a loss. And if you are expensing and you say, for instance, you use a personal credit card, say you don't have your business credit card on you, and you need to buy something, and it's for the business. You can do that, but you don't want to pay. You don't want to include that directly on your taxes. What you have to do is, is the business has to reimburse you. So the business has money has to come out of the business into to your account as a reimbursement. Then you pay off that credit card. You don't want the business to personally pay off that credit card ever, ever right, because you've pierced the corporate veil, and then somebody can sue you. So always keep that separate when you're expensing and that's that clear and accurate accounting, because it makes sense or it makes a difference. So I know that was a lot of information, and I just kind of threw it out there, but if you don't care about getting deductions and you just want additional credit, then you have the tools to go get a business credit card, and you can, you don't have to capital stack. You can go get one card. You know, one card for $30,000 gives you a lot of options. You can buy real estate with that card. You can buy a classic car with that card and then fix it up and sell it like there's so many things that you can do with that line of credit that's generally a zero APR for a year or 18 months, but you have to know how to use it and I would be responsible with it. So, yeah, and there are people on Tiktok and Instagram that are constantly, you know, you'll see, it'll be some they'll show this flashy car, and they'll be like, Oh, I bought this on, you know, with business credit and bullshit you did, maybe you did, but you're not going to keep it, and they're going to come forward eventually, you know. And there's the tax code says you can get a 6000 pound vehicle for business and you can deduct that again, you have to be very careful. You can't just go get $100,000 G wagon and let. Your wife and kids right around in all day, and expect that to be okay. These people aren't stupid. They know, you know what's legit and what's not legit. Now, if you go buy, you know, a big truck and you use it and the partially for business use, you're fine, but don't expect to, you know, to get a Land Rover and never use it for the business and that to be okay eventually that there's going to be a reckoning there, so be responsible, know the rules,

Unknown Speaker  25:30
but you can push the limits and you'll be okay. Does

Unknown Speaker  25:36
anybody have any questions?

Unknown Speaker  25:42
Is does anybody here have a business credit card?

Speaker 1  25:47
Not yet? Yeah, okay. Do you have a LLC or any?

Speaker 2  25:52
Yeah, I'm doing the like, the credit score stuff, but I'm in the process, so I'm going to start it soon. Yeah, very soon. Okay, so all this information is very helpful.

Unknown Speaker  26:03
I've had a business credit card. I just don't use it very often,

Unknown Speaker  26:09
but it was

Speaker 3  26:12
from two years ago. I started like an LLC with my dad. It was called a Wally wholesale where we were, it was just like, sort of this retail arbitrage thing. We'd buy, like, discounted electronics and resell them. And at the time, it was pretty good, you know, but it got to a point where, at one point, it was doing well enough where it would be beneficial to make it an LLC. But then it just, you know, kind of died down a bit. So now

Unknown Speaker  26:42
we still have, I still have the card, I just don't use it. Okay?

Speaker 1  26:50
Well, I mean, if, if you don't have a lot of personal credit cards, and you, you know, you need it, it's possible to use it. Yeah, you

Speaker 3  26:58
know, they get pretty good limits. Yeah, they do get really good limits, though, especially once you, like, tell them what you do. They're just, you know, they're a bit hesitant at first, but then, like, as they see you, just, we, we were paying off credit cards within, like, like you said, a week, three, four days. And, you know, year over year, they would just, it would nearly double, actually. So they were, they were very helpful with that.

Unknown Speaker  27:21
You remember what bank? It was

Speaker 3  27:24
a credit card. It's an American Express Express plum card.

Speaker 1  27:28
Okay, okay. You know, I don't have any American Express cards, and the reason why is because they always want me to fill out this extra paperwork. I've tried several times. They know something with my identity. They don't. They want me to fill out these, these forms, and I fill them out, like, two or three times and send them to them. They don't accept the forms. They'd send it back saying you didn't fill it out correctly. I don't know if it's some weird thing. See, I've had, I was adopted, and then, then my mother remarried, so I've had three last names. I think that has something to do with it, same social security number, different last names as as a male, I don't know, but so I just kind of gave up on them. And now I you know, Capital One Bank of America and chase are kind of my bread and butter banks to go to, especially Chase, I always start with Chase. Yeah. Chase is good. Yeah, they give pretty much just about the highest limits. I know a lot of people, like Navy, federal, that's a big one too. And pin, I think it's pen fed. But Chase has always been great, like I can pretty much on an LLC created the right way, with the right credit profile, you're going to get 25 grand at least, at least,

Speaker 3  28:46
yeah, I know another guy. He he actually did something similar, except on a much larger scale. He was actually wholesaling electronics, and he's had so many issues with American Express, but he says, like they he has like, six figure credit limits, like, on the high end, like, I'm like 345, 100,000 I know some people like seven, 800 but they do have issues with them. A lot of people say customer service, which I thought was kind of surprising. I thought they had some of the better customer service. But everybody has a story. Yeah.

Speaker 1  29:22
I mean, you just never know. But like, I mean, there you go. So when you you go to get legit business credit, you get, you can get $300,000 you know, yeah, and your business can then buy a single family home and then do it all, you know, that's wild.

Unknown Speaker  29:43
Like you go to the title company and you say, Here, swipe this card.

Unknown Speaker  29:49
That'd be crazy.

Speaker 2  29:51
I just wanted to add, if you're thinking of getting one, a lot of people recommend getting cheese first, because they have 524. Will give you apply. It for the past two years for more than, like, five credit cards they're gonna deny you, yeah, so it has to be less, less credit inquiries, less than five.

Speaker 1  30:13
Well, I don't know. I currently have eight hard inquiries, and I just, I just got a chase for 27,000 but the reason is because of this current business, because they ran my credit eight separate times at these vendors to open lines of credit, and there was really nothing I can do about it. I can I try to get them removed, but I'm really not. I don't know why they did the it's it's because it's older businesses that they just have archaic ways and like, they want to be paid in a check. And, yeah, it sucks. And I'm because, yeah, it just like, it doesn't. It's never happened to me before. I don't know why this particular city, this is the first one that I bought in this city. But it seems like a common thread throughout the city is they want to do a hard inquiry and then give you just a small line of credit. So I'm not happy about it. Yeah.

Speaker 2  31:19
Also, Shane, you mentioned about the I post tool. I recently learned that you can look it up the any address, any virtual address in the usps.com website. And it has a it will give you an option, and it will tell you if it's if it is a commercial mail receiving agency. So if you, if you apply like credit union or the bank, they're going to do the same thing. And if it will show up as an agency, they're probably going to deny you or give you like less credit. Yeah, yep, I, I did search that like you said, some virtual addresses are a little different. They they don't have that option check in USPS, so it will show it will say no, but they do provide virtual address service. So in that case, I think the bank is going to treat it differently. It will think like it's a brick and mortar business instead of like agency, so you might have, like, better chance of getting higher limit or getting approved in

Speaker 1  32:30
Yeah, and these virtual address companies, they know that, so they have different tiers. They have fully virtual if you know, you don't care about the price, you know, you're just trying to save money, and you need a central location for your mail. Or they know, if you know, what is it, Regents, I think it's called, starts with an R, yeah, it's very expensive, and they have different tiered packages. And I'm sure that they are targeting people that are trying to get business credit because, you know, that's their bread and butter. Who else is going to use of you know, everybody's just going to get it at their apartment building or whatever. So they know exactly what they're doing. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  33:20
okay, I'm gonna go ahead and switch.
