Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy, and it is Thursday, August 28 tonight, we're going to talk about little bit about credit. We're going to mix it up a little bit and talk about why credit is important and some misconceptions about credit and what you what it means to have a good credit score, and what that score should actually be. So let's go ahead and get started. Okay, so the first thing that I want to talk about is just in general, some things that I have probably said before. But why are we in this? Why does credit matter? Why are we trying to do all the things that we're doing right? You know, like we all want to have financial freedom, we're looking to buy a business. We're looking to get into real estate, to investing in stocks. Why is that? And the reason is because the American dream, supposedly, is, you know, you get a good job, maybe you go to college, you get a good job, you work that job for 30 years, and then you retire, and hopefully you have enough of a pension and a retirement to enjoy your golden years without having to work and and worry about anything financially. The reality of that is that people that are of younger generations can't rely on anything. Who knows what's going to happen. Social Security, the job market is up and down. A lot of, you know, baby boomers and even Gen X were able to buy houses when the interest rates were were much lower than they are now, and the property values are much lower. And then you can build up and you have that nest egg. So you get to retirement and you have, hopefully a home paid for, and you've got a pension, and you've got Social Security, and you have to worry about anything, those truths are not going to necessarily be relevant to younger generations. So if, if you look at the numbers of who actually has gotten to be a millionaire, and how they got there and what they own is pretty astounding. So most people that are millionaires didn't get there from working a nine to five job. Only 3% of all millionaires got to that point from their nine to five job. 9% of them inherited their money. So it's family money. 18% are high level corporate executives that, you know, like CEOs and things the golden parachute that kind of stuff. 31% have invested heavily in the stock market. And then think about 51% of Congress are millionaires. That's a whole topic in and of itself. Maybe they're already rich. Maybe they manipulated who knows? But this is a huge one right here. Look at this, 85% of millionaires own a business or are self employed, which basically means the same thing. That is an astounding number, 85% and look at this, 90% invest in real estate. Okay? And I threw this one in, 98% are cheap skates, where they watch what money they spend. You see a lot of people that are working their way towards wealth and fortune that they're not driving a Lamborghini, they're not driving a Porsche, they're driving like a 10 year old car that's perfectly fine, because they're using their money on things that matter. They're using their money to buy assets that appreciate rather than depreciate. So So what does that tell us? That lessons learned here are, you know, rather than concentrating all of your efforts and everything that you have on the nine to five, maybe it's better off if you concentrate your efforts on buying a business, on investing in real estate. I don't care what it even stocks, what it is, but what you want to do is you want to, if you buy a business, you want to own the process and hire people so that the you can do less work but make more money. And it doesn't seem like things should work that way, but it 100% does work that way. So if you think about those aging you know, Boomer owners that are working 5060, hours a week, they've hit a ceiling. They work themselves to a point to where they can't put any extra time in it. They can't do anything else other than what they're doing, as far as effort wise, and maybe their business is at like, a million dollars a year. What they don't realize is that they would step back, do less of the day to day work, and delegate it out and let go of the process. They could concentrate. On growing the business, on growing the processes, on maybe even buying another business and then scale. And that's what I hope that everybody in the mentorship and everybody in the community understands that you can only get where you need to go by delegating. You have to have a team, and you have to build processes, and you want to own the process, hire the right people, and then pull back and let them do a better job than what you would do for yourself, and then you can concentrate on the future and the vision for that company. Okay, that was my soapbox thing. So let's get back to credit. So why is credit important? Credit these days, and your credit score in general is huge. I don't care if you're renting an apartment, if you are, you know, buying a car, if you're trying to buy a house, your credit score affects everything. A high credit score gives you power because it gives you access to capital, and the people with access to capital have options and tools where they can change their lives for the good. You know, I'm a big proponent of buying assets on leverage, which means buying, getting a loan to buy a cash flow producing asset, as opposed to the whole Dave Ramsey thing, where you save, save, save, save, and then maybe one day you can buy an asset. I don't, I don't agree with that at all. Loans and leverage are around so that we can get the things we need now and build the life that we want today, as opposed to waiting 20 years from now, when you can't enjoy it, if you use leverage the right way, you can get the things you want now they pay for themselves, and then you can move on. Okay? So why is credit important? Credit will give you lower interest rates on loans. It gives you negotiating power. If you go into a bank and you say, like Brooke was saying you and then you say, have an 820 credit score, they're going to start throwing money at you because they know you pay your debts. They know that you probably don't have a lot of debt, and they want to be number one on your your debt list, because they feel like you're going to pay it off. So you end up paying less in interest because it's more competitive. So a bank will generally lower their interest rates. If you have a really high credit score, they will approve you more easily. You'll get lower insurance premiums on whatever you got the loan for, sometimes you get even better job opportunities with a higher credit score, housing opportunities for sure, lower security deposits for like renting an apartment. Credit card approvals out the wazoo. If you have 800 plus credit score, you know they're in the mail, you're getting cards like once twice a week, pre approved for this many $1,000 because they want you to use them. So it just gives you power to negotiate financial flexibility, and it helps you to build what you want your future to be. That's why, if you currently have a low credit score, your number one priority should be working on that credit score. So let's talk about what happens it. You know the difference between fixing your credit score or doing nothing. So if you currently have a low credit score, here's what you're missing out on. Now these these numbers are kind of old, but it's all relative, right? So say you were buying house a few years ago, the difference was a 2.8 interest rate for someone that had a good credit score, as opposed to anywhere from 3.8 to 4.2 and on a 30 year mortgage, 1.5% difference is huge, huge. I mean, you're talking about 10s of 1000s of dollars, if not you know, upwards of $50,000 that you end up paying more because of that higher interest rate. And even worse, you can get denied outright because your credit score wasn't high enough. So you know, it could keep you from getting that dream home or that business that you want or that car or whatever it is, and then even renting an apartment. So the down payment, if you have a good credit score, might be zero to one month's rent, versus two months or more. Or even worse, they won't let you in the apartment because you have too low of a credit score. So all of our apartments, and for even the property management company, we require a 630 credit score. We won't let anybody into those apartments that's less than a 630 credit score. So the reason that is is because we found that people with less than 630 tend not to pay their debts, right? That's what that. Floor is for Okay, let's talk about a car. Now, let me just preface this by saying I never advise people to buy a car on credit. It's one of the worst investments you can ever make, especially a brand new car. I have personally never bought a brand new car on credit, and I never will, so I'm just throwing that out there. The very first day that you drive your brand new car off the lot, you lose 15% of whatever you paid for it. It's just a fact of the car market. So I would much rather buy an asset that produces money and produces cash flow, and then use the cash flow to buy the vehicle, and then when the vehicle is paid off, then you still have a cash flow producing asset. I would not just get a loan for a car unless I was absolutely, you know, back against the wall, any transportation kind of thing. So the difference is good credit score you might pay, you know, this was a few years ago, again, 4.5%

Unknown Speaker  11:03
for a five year as opposed to 5.5%

Unknown Speaker  11:07
and look at the difference there. It's the difference between

Speaker 1  11:12
30 540 300 right? So that's over the life of the loan, you're going to pay $830 more because you don't have a good credit score, or you might not even be able to get the car at all because your credit score is too bad. Credit cards, this is where it's really, really different. So you might get a 0% interest rate if you have a good credit score, and you might get upwards of a almost a 30% interest rate on a card. That's the worst I've ever seen, is like 37% and it's it was a bank called Premier Bank, and it was a community member had a MasterCard at Premier Bank, and I was like, 37% should be illegal. It's crazy, but they're out there, and those are the kind of cards that you know you get all the that stuff in the mail that says you're pre approved for $500 that's the kind of card that you get in the mail when you have a bad credit score, or worse, you can get denied outright for credit. So let's think about the credit score breakdown here. Okay, so this is, I think the lowest your credit score can get is like a 310, something like that. I've never seen one any lower than that. But if you're at you know you can have actually no credit score, which no credit score means no credit you've never gotten anything on credit. You have very little financial history. You'll see a lot of young people that have never really done anything. They start off with no credit for this means you probably have some charge offs. You have collections, a lot of late payments. You know it this is, this is about as bad as it gets. Fair means that, you know, you've made a lot of good payments. You have some open credit lines. You're working on things. You probably have a lot of hard inquiries. You might have one charge off something like that, possibly a bankruptcy in the past. And then right here you're getting into the money, which is 670, or greater, ideally, what you where you want to be is right in here. Right in here tells me that you're using your credit, but you're using it the right way. Okay, obviously, the higher the better. But if someone comes to me and they say, I have an 820 credit score, what that tells me is they're not using their credit. They pay their bills, they're very responsible, and they're doing well on everything, but they're not using their credit, so they're wasting an opportunity to take the next level in their life by not using their credit. But maybe they're just they're trying to use their credit, and haven't gotten there, right? Brooke, we're getting there. So let's talk about the what matters in your credit score, like, where these numbers are coming from, payment history, is 35% it's the most impactful. So pay your bills on time, set it up on auto, pay and never worry about it again. Every one of my credit cards, I usually pay it on my own, like within I pay, so I buy everything on credit. I'm very responsible with my cards, but I buy it on credit so I can get the points, and I pay them pretty much off that week or the following week, every single one. But even though I do that, I still have auto pay set up on every single one, just in case that I miss. You know, I miss a card, or maybe it's a card I haven't used in a while, and there's some kind of a weird recurring payment on it that I forgot about for some kind of subscription. I don't want something to sit out there, and I forgot that, you know, it's being used for something, and then I get a late payment. So I set an auto pay up. On everything, and then the amounts owed. So this is your credit utilization, basically. So if you have 10,000 in potential credit and you have 8000 that you've used, that's an 80% utilization, and that's going to really ding your score. You want to keep that they say less than 30% but if you can keep it below 10% it's even better. And then your credit history. So that's like, how long you've had credit how old your credit is? You know, do you have bankruptcies in the past, things like that. So it's kind of important. And then your credit mix, which is like, do you have credit cards? Do you have loans, you know, places like, you know, do you have like, bills that are showing that you pay on time, stuff like that? And then new credit really doesn't matter too much. That's your inquiries. You know. You can have a lot of hard inquiries in it not ding your credit too much, but it becomes a red flag to credit card companies if you apply for a credit card with them and they look at your credit profile and you have mostly new credit like you've applied for four or five new credit cards in the last three or four months, that's kind of a red flag. So I want to talk to you about a little bit about Credit Karma and Experian and what they're actually doing, right? So do you guys have the Credit Karma app? Did you guys use it and get notifications from it? Just curious, or Experian? Either one. Do you have a credit monitoring app on your phone. Anyone,

Unknown Speaker  16:50
nobody, nobody has Credit Karma or Experian

Unknown Speaker  16:57
on the messages in the chat section, we got some yeses.

Speaker 1  17:00
Okay, sorry, I can't see that. Okay, okay, okay, cool. So here's, here's what I want you to realize about Credit Karma and Experian. So I've noticed this about Credit Karma, and I've been researching this over the last few months. So if you think about how Credit Karma makes money, it's pretty obvious. You know, they make money from advertising. They make money from being able to get affiliate you know, like, I don't even know what you would call it, affiliate commissions, from funneling us to certain cards that we get approved for. Then the credit card companies will pay them money for that. And what I've noticed on Credit Karma is they'll send me a notice. They'll say something like, Oh, your credit score rose to the top. You know, your credit score is higher than this many, you know, this percentage of people in your age group, blah, blah, blah. And you go, look and it seems like it's higher than it should be. Well, I don't have the data to back this up as far as the score itself, but I believe that they are pushing the scores artificially higher so that they can, you know, give you more credit card options, that maybe you'll get a credit card, and maybe you'll fill out the application, and then they get their commission. That's the only thing I can figure out. Why Credit Karma is consistently higher than Experian or TransUnion. When I look at it, it just doesn't make sense. You can go look at the, you know, the credit report, and you have all the same things, you know, all the same credit limits, all the same payments, everything, but they seem like they're artificially higher. Now, Experian will do the same thing if you do the like the boost, you know, because they'll artificially pump it up. If you're paying your rent on time, your utilities and all that stuff, they'll show more payments on time. But I feel like it's only so they can shop different credit cards to you, because that's how they're really making money. Because the app is free. The general monitoring of your single credit score is free. You can pay for, you know, to have it locked. You can pay for all three credit unions and stuff like that. But the majority of people, I don't know anybody that's paying for any of that stuff, everybody's using the free app. So credit Carmen Experian are still making money somehow. How are they doing it? This is what I think they're doing. Okay, so if your credit is jacked, you can, you know, you can fix it yourself, or you can hire a credit repair company to do it. You can, you can, you know, reach out to me, and I can hook you up with with nesty, and he can help you. But I would recommend everybody that's watching this video, if your credit score is less than a 700 start working on it, whether it's yourself or with a company, whatever, because if you get in the seven hundreds, especially the you know, 750s or more a. Um, you get a lot of doors opened, and you can get the credit you need. You can get the reduced rates. It just gives you a lot of power when it comes to business and investing and buying these cash flow producing assets that we've been talking about this whole time. But just know that that credit repair is not easy. It takes a little while something that you need to learn about, but you can do it on your own if you want to. So I asked at the beginning of this, maybe before the recording started, what you think that my credit score is? Well, my credit score is like it goes anywhere from like 730 to 760 depending on where in the loan cycle that I'm at right because I'm using my credit hardcore all the time. I have millions of dollars in loans at any one time that are out when I buy a new business. A lot of times I have to open net 30 accounts, credit accounts, which I get a bunch of hard inquiries for that sometimes, you know, so you're going to take some hits on it. But at the same time, my debt to income ratio is really good. So if you don't know what the debt to income ratio is, it's, you know, your overall debt is this number say it's, we'll call it a million dollars. But the income that you're that you get from all of this debt is 100,000 so you know, your debt, debt to income, is one, one to 10. So as long as you continue to make money, you can, you can have $2,000,000.02 $100,000 of income. You still have the same debt, debt to income ratio. So as long as you're buying assets with that leverage that are bringing in money you're you can actually buy something new, get more debt and have your debt to income come down because you're also adding to your income. So if you're buying things the right way, your debt to income should not be a factor, but you will get dings on your credit, and it's just part of it, right? So I was messing with Brooke a little bit earlier because she said she had a really high credit score, you know, in the eight hundreds. And I say, you know, if I see a credit score in eight hundreds, it means that you're probably not using your credit, you're missing an opportunity to use your credit, but at the same time, you're also responsible with your bills, so that's good too. But yeah, that's I haven't had an 800 credit score, and I don't know how long, and even so, it was like barely 800 but if you're in the seven hundreds, anywhere in the seven hundreds, anywhere than 700 especially around 750 you can pretty much do anything you ever need to do with

Unknown Speaker  22:48
credit. Okay, there you go. Guys. Does

Speaker 1  22:52
anybody have any questions? It's kind of a boring old credit topic.

Speaker 2  23:02
Thank Can you talk a little bit about the, the self repair that you talk about, the reporting, I know you did say, reach out to the professional. Like, if you have an idea, like, I don't mind. Like, you know, making some inquiries. Like, I actually signed up with class about this with a banker, and that particular day they moved the class. And then the day that the class, I was, for some reason, busy. I went to the class. Didn't gain much because I was busy juggling my job and the class that day, so I missed out and I was supposed to get the recording. I haven't gotten the recording. So, like, I just, I believe I can reach out to someone, but if you can, like, emphasize a little bit about, or just talk a little bit about some of, like, the repair error, or some of the things we can do on our end to like, alleviate whatever situation we find ourselves. Like, personally, a year before 2024 I was approved for $300,000 to buy a private house, and now my credit is, you know, some of some of the things that happened was partly my fault, you know, like this, you know, getting late with some of the payment and some stuff like, I just got myself so overworked and got busy with so many things, and things started slipping through the crack and then masking some of my card. That's what happened to me. So if there's something I can do like, I would love the experience. I mean, I know I can pay so long, but if that's something you can expand on a little bit, that'll be great,

Speaker 1  24:52
sure, sure. So, so if you look at this chart, you know the number one thing is the payment history. So if you have late payments. Um, what a credit history credit repair company is going to do is they're going to target those late payments, and they're going to try to get those late payments removed for whatever reason. So they have a lot of tricks up their sleeve. Number one, they're going to start with challenging the factual nature of those late payments, whether it was, it was or wasn't your card, whether you did pay and they didn't record it, or sometimes even like personal information, like they might have your name wrong somewhere in the credit report. And that can open up all kinds of doors. They have a lot of little, little tricks and tools that they use. They'll, I think I just posted about this one way to get to get your your late charges off. I think I posted about it last week so you can follow that script. You can call and actually follow that script and get some of those late charges taken off. You get one late, you know, late payment taken off, you're going to see an immediate rise in your credit score, immediate. That's because it has so much impact. The other thing that you you can work on easily yourself is the amount that you owe. Get that below 10% so if you have 10,000 in credit, and you currently owe 5000 you need to do everything you can to lower that to below 10% that also will be, you know, a big chunk that you'll you'll get an improvement there. Now your credit mix, your new credit and your credit history, there's not a lot you can do about it. So what credit repair companies are going to concentrate on is this first and the second one. And they have a whole bunch of tricks that they throw at this first one, nesty is really good at he's got all kinds of things like, he'll call and, you know, he'll say things like, you know, we were out of the country. There's no way we could have gotten this charge. There's a lot of stuff. And sometimes, you know, you file certain federal letters that are citing federal statutes, and they, if you do it the right way, and they it applies, then they will remove them. There's like, a whole little playbook of things that they do. That's why you know you can do some of it yourself, but a lot of times it's just easier to let the professionals do it, because what you don't want to do is like people are always talking about hard inquiries, and you can get these hard inquiries taken off by this, this and this. Well, hard inquiries don't really matter that much. They matter if you're trying to get another card. But if you're trying to get, you know, a loan from the SBA or from a bank, they really don't care about hard inquiries. It doesn't affect you. So that's secondary to these first two. So I don't know if that was if that answered your question, patience, but, like, Yeah, same thing, because there are a lot of errors. So like, especially, you know, they could have your last name spelled, you know, a you instead of UA, and that can wipe all of your late payments. Something as simple as that can wipe all your late payments.

Speaker 2  28:22
And that is if there was an actual spelling error, correct?

Speaker 1  28:28
Yeah, yeah, spelling error, address, error dates. I mean, there's all kinds of things that they'll concentrate on that that's one of the first things a credit repair company will do, is they'll get all the facts, they'll get all your personal information, and they'll start cross checking that with your credit report to see, Okay, where can we fight this? It's almost like a defense attorney you're going to trial, facing, you know, some kind of criminal trial, and they're looking for some kind of loophole to get you out, because they know you're guilty, they know you did it, but they're trying to find a way to get you not guilty, basically, some kind of loophole, some kind of error in process where they violated your rights some it's a very similar process

Unknown Speaker  29:16
that makes sense,

Unknown Speaker  29:18
yeah? And they know all the tricks. Yeah,

Speaker 1  29:22
that's why, when I when I see one, or I talked to nesty, and he kind of, like, lays out one of the new ones, I'll try to post it in the community. So if people want to do it on their own, they can do it on their own. So I've done that a few times. I know one of them is like, saying you were overseas, and you know, there's no way you could have applied for this credit or the last one that I put out there is a whole script that you can go through to get rid of some of that stuff. But it's effective. It works. I mean, here, right here, it tells you, you know, it's 40 million mistakes found by the Federal Trade Commission in credits, in your credit reports. 40 million. That's a lot. Anybody else have any questions about credit credit reports, credit scores?

Speaker 3  30:24
I'm still fighting my school loan, late payments that happened in April. I mean, how's it going? Oh, man. So, I mean, I sent out, yeah, I'm using the chat, GBT, AI stuff to help me prepare everything and word everything properly and so but, I mean, I sent out all three letters last month. I got two responses so far. I think one was from TransUnion, the other one was Experian. Haven't heard from Equifax yet. So, I mean, it's coming on 30 days since I sent those, I got two responses so far. And like, they were both kind of like, hey, we sent a letter over to your school loan people to see if these records were actually correct, you know. And so, like, that's kind of like, all that's come so far with those responses. And so, I mean, so, I mean, you know, like, like, you just said, like, bottom line, they are correct, but I was, you know, so we're just trying to figure out the way to go. So the AI was saying that if they don't, like, comply and take them off, then, like, file a complaint. Was with some, some board or whatever, I don't know so, but like you said, I might look into getting a professional to do it nesting. I mean, I had nest. He helped me in the beginning, but I don't think he is prepared for a school own thing. He did try doing a couple attempts to send some letters for me, but that didn't work out. I'm sure he's good in other areas, but I don't know if school loan is, like, this, is this new school loan type of a thing? I don't know.

Speaker 1  32:06
But though, yeah, it just came up, right? Yeah, everybody like, six months ago, right? Yeah.

Speaker 3  32:11
And so, but yeah. So something happened with the law, and they changed it, and then all of a sudden, I got three late payments all at once in the same day, and so, but yeah. So I'm not sure if nesty is prepared for that, but he did attempt at it, and so, but nothing came out of it. So I'm trying to chat GBT and but we'll keep swinging at it, like you said. Just some important you know, yeah, so, but yeah,

Speaker 1  32:36
some old school ways, like in the in the community resource bundle there. There's a way that you can remove some of that stuff. Okay, it's a whole process, but I have done that in the past, and it does work. Wow. Okay, cool. I don't know if it'll work for the school loans, but it does work for a lot of stuff. Okay, it's out there. We gotta get nothing. You go, you know, you have to report it. And, yeah, it's a process, but it does work,

Speaker 3  33:03
yeah, because otherwise it's gonna take two years to knock them off. So I mean, yeah, we're still going at it. But yeah, it's been but yeah, my my credit, my credit score was, like at 750 and couple others, like a 730 something, so it was up there, and it was getting really good, and then out of nowhere, just got the rug pulled out. So we're gonna, but, yeah, we're gonna, I'll go through your notes here and see there's any other ammo that can fire at these people.

Speaker 2  33:34
Okay, I think my situation is similar to yours now that you're talking about the school thing. It was, I believe it was the school, because I was working for a hospital that could, it was a government hospital, and we could get, you know, our student law, written off. So I was hoping to write some of mine. Of it didn't work out. So we had a grace period, and then when we resume, I think I did not jump into making payment right away. I think there was a little delay when Biden was there. So I think this is where my problem came from, too. So I'm gonna come close to you and figure out, like, the school thing, I'm almost done with my loan. It wasn't even a lot of money. I should have paid this off all this while. So like, if you finally take off the loan, eventually do they still leave those record there?

Speaker 1  34:41
So are you saying that, if you pay the loan off, will the late payments go away? Yeah, no, it's it's not like, like, if you kill the head vampire, then all the other vampires are no longer vampires. No, okay, no, those, those late fees will still be there even after you pay it off. That's why a lot of. Um, credit gurus, they'll say, if you have charge offs, just never pay them, because there's nothing you can do to fix it other than just wait for the time to drop them off. Like if you So, if you have five late payments on a loan for 10,000 and then you say, Okay, I have this money. I'm going to go ahead and pay the whole thing off. You still have this five late payments. You'll have a a good mark saying that you paid off the entire loan. The loan closed, but those late payments will still show up. Gotcha. So what they'll what they'll do instead is they will challenge the loan itself and try to get that completely pulled from your credit that, yeah, but it's, it's difficult to do, but that's what they recommend, other than paying, like, if you're getting like, collection agencies calling you, here's a here's a little Trick, like, if someone, if anyone ever calls you and they say, Hey, are you such and such and responsible for this card or whatever, you just immediately say, I understand how this process works. I'm not giving you any information, positive or negative, something generic like that. Don't answer any questions. Don't verify your social security number, don't verify your address, don't verify your phone number, nothing. Give them nothing because they're fishing. They don't have all the information they need to collect from you. They have a phone number, they might have an address, and they're just they're fishing for more information to where they can track you down and put more debt on you if possible. So answer nothing.

Speaker 2  36:48
So I have heard different mix opinion about these, like some people say, answer them. So saying don't answer them. So if you don't answer them, what do you go? Go back to the source of the

Unknown Speaker  37:02
Syndics. Source of the credit and go take care of it from there, if

Speaker 1  37:05
it's already in collections, the Harm's already done. There's not a lot you can do. So why it if you're already getting that penalty?

Unknown Speaker  37:14
Oh sure, yeah,

Speaker 1  37:19
they've already that means that the main creditor has already sold that debt to a collection agency. The main creditor has already said, we feel like we're never going to get this money. So, you know, this person owes us 10,000 we're going to sell this to a collection agency for 1000 so at least we get something for it, the collection agency is going to hound you and hound you and hound you so you pay them. But on the main the main debt, the money's never going to go back there. It's going to go to the collection agency. See, it's like a, I don't know. It's like a shell game, almost.

Unknown Speaker  38:00
That makes sense. Thank you.

Speaker 2  38:06
Oh Shane. When you finish, I'm not sure if I can ask this question here. It's all kind of things you'll find on Tiktok. So there was this thing that I found talking about like, I'm not sure if I want to ask the question now. It's related to, like, borrowing against

Unknown Speaker  38:28
a life insurance and stuff like that.

Speaker 1  38:31
Okay, yeah, let's, let's go to the and then we can talk about it there, if that's okay. Okay. Does anybody have any more credit related questions? Okay?
