Speaker 1  00:03
Hey everyone. This is the money Language Academy. And the date today is April 17, 2025, and we're going to talk about tonight. This is the general investing category. It kind of fits into everything, every other thing that we talk about, whether you know, it's business acquisition, whether it's real estate, you know, finding deals, finding people to help you, whatever it all comes back to, to networking. Networking is, is huge, like, and I think people, you know, I know it's a cliche. You know, your your net worth is your network, or your network is your network is your net worth, however you want to say it, but it's it's totally true. And one things, the things that I've learned about networking is it's hard to network unless you're doing something. You know, if you're going to invest in real estate, invest in real estate. You know that opens the doors to tons of different networking, whether it's realtors, contractors, inspectors, property managers, whatever. Just like taking that first step, you immediately just kind of explode on the scene. And you you get introduced to all these people, because you're now a player. You're not just you're not talking about it, you're actually doing it. And that makes a big difference. I know it's a little scary, but you know, we always say that there are people that talk shit and there are people that do shit, and even if it's not the best deal in the world, as long as you run through your due diligence, I don't care if it's real estate, I don't care if it's stocks, crypto, whatever, you know, run your numbers, play it all the way out, and then make an educated decision, and it's hard to go wrong, because even if It doesn't do what you think it's going to do, you're still going to gain from it, because you'll get the knowledge of it, you'll meet the people, you'll have the experience all that. So I just got this stat today, which says 85% of business deals come from relationships. Now this is not just buying a business. This is just in general. So if you already have a business, or, say you're in real estate and you're going to get do a fix and flip, you already have a relationship, probably, with a contractor. You've used that contractor before, or you've been referred by a friend of yours to this contractor. Because everybody knows contractors are horrible, and you can't trust them, right? That's just 70% 75% of contractors. It's hard to trust but when once you find a good one, or somebody in your network finds a good one, everybody starts using that contractor. And it's it's a windfall for the contractor, and it's great for you, too. So you already know that you can trust them more easily if you know somebody referred them. And then also, there are certain people that are doing huge things that you wouldn't even know about. You know, there's some unsuspecting person that's driving, you know, a 2004 Camry that is sitting on a stack of cash, and might be a private money lender that who you just never know. You can't ever tell what people are doing. I had a great uncle who was a multi millionaire and used to wear overalls with safety pin holding up his overalls, and he owned half of the town that we lived in. You would never know. He drove a beat up car. His house looked crazy like but he had tons of money, and he would buy up all the commercial real estate in town, whatever you could, and who you associate is, who you will become. So think about your group of friends. Are you the only person that talks about money in your group of friends? Are you the only person that discusses investments and taxes, not just complaining about it? You know, some you get in a group of friends, and all they talk about is, oh, the new car or the new iPhone or the new Grand Theft Auto, whatever like. But they never talk about things that align with your goals, that can be an issue, right? So just, just think about that you know who you associate with is who you will become. So if you're interested in acquiring wealth and doing real estate and buying a business, you should be associating with people that are at least interested in those same things. So you can bounce ideas off them and just just discuss it in general, you know? And just like this community, that's the first step, right? Guys are are already in this, this first stage where you're meeting new people, and that from now, we've been here for, you know, weeks, but we're going on a couple of months now, and the people that have been here for a while, you know, you guys know each other. You know me a little better. I know you a little better. We kind of know what everybody's looking for. And that kind of stuff, and opportunities will come from those relationships. And we always think when we're starting out that we don't have anything to offer, right? But everybody has a skill, and there are people out there that have that are established. They have money and no time, and they. Really would like someone who has time and no money to help them out, right? So you guys help each other out, and that is a common thing. The longer I've done this, the more I see that, because time becomes more rare than anything else, and you have to find people that their their vision is aligned with your vision, and you can delegate, and you can trust them, and it's a it's a step up for them, and it's also helping you. When you can find that that symbiotic relationship with people, good people, it just helps everybody. So don't think that just because you haven't done it, that you can't do it, and that people aren't looking for help. You know, you see people at restaurants or, you know, real estate meetups or something like that, and you know that they're a big player. You can still talk to them. They're still looking for help. I don't care who they are. Maybe not Grant Cardone, but in general, yeah. So what we're gonna talk about tonight is how you can strategically network specifically for buying a business or for real estate. Those are the two that's probably the, the most lucrative, to really branch out and get a good network. And then hopefully we'll, we'll come up with a plan here, because I like little worksheets. I don't know if you guys like homework, but there's a little bit of homework tonight. Just a little there's a little there's a little bit nothing, nothing big, but sometimes it's good to put your your thoughts and your plan down on paper, and then it holds you accountable to actually take action. And that's always the the difficult thing is, we sit back and we say, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that, and it just sometimes it doesn't get done. So, okay, so yeah, think like a deal maker. So wherever you go, you might even be, might be at church, you might be at the grocery store, you might be wherever. There's always going to be people that are fairly aligned with what what you're trying to do. So so for me, right when I doesn't really matter where I'm at, I might be, I might be trying to do a real estate deal, but I'm talking to an agent, a real estate agent or property manager, then I'm going to plug the, you know, the landscaping business, because that fits right in with them. I'm going to, I want to plug the plumbing business, because that also fits right in with them. You know, always putting yourself out there, and people say, and I've heard it on Tiktok a whole bunch. I forget his name. He's old, rich jerk, and he's really mean on Tiktok all the time, and screams at people for no reason, but he says, if you have a plan, you have a dream, keep it to yourself and don't, don't tell anybody. I 100% don't agree with that, because I get it. You know, people will poo poo on your dreams and all that stuff. But if you put it out there, then people will know what you're doing, and maybe they can actually help you, right? Maybe they can. They have, you know, you're looking to buy a single family home that's that's run down, you know, that needs a lot of work, and you want to do your your first flip. Well, maybe they know somebody. You know, you're just missing out on that opportunity to network. And it also holds you accountable to actually take action, because you don't want to see those people again, and you've done nothing in the pursuit of the dream that you've told them about. So it's, it's kind of a two fold benefit there, and there will be naysayers that just comes with the territory. You have to be able to block the haters, right? They're going to, they're going to try to to, yeah, they won't understand. They're going to try to bring you down. It's just part of the process. And then a couple of years, two, three years later, they're going to come ask you how you did it, and how they can do it.

Speaker 2  08:41
That's one thing I say to Shane, is that even though maybe people don't want to hear the negativity, you know, quote, unquote, negativity, people may say, I think it is good when you put things out there, people may challenge you, and it makes you think about, hey, you know, I never thought about this or whatever, but I'm all, I'm in agreeance with what you're saying, too. You put things out there, you do have at least a chance of other people helping you. Keeping it to yourself makes it seem like you know everything. And there's you've got this rock solid, rock solid air type plan, and there's things that all of us had blind spots. And, you know, sometimes you may think there's not even a chance somebody could help you if it but if no one knows there's, the answer is already No, and they can't help you.

Unknown Speaker  09:22
Yeah, yeah, totally,

Unknown Speaker  09:24
totally, so,

Unknown Speaker  09:27
so they call it. It's called a power connector,

Speaker 1  09:31
which, I don't know if that makes much sense that term, but, but basically, like, you know, you stay on mission, if you when you go to places, there are certain places that are for networking, real estate meetups. They're for networking right Chamber of Commerce meetings, therefore networking there to get your name out, get your business out there, to get you know whatever service that you're doing, whatever. But it's very important that you're interested in who you're talking to. You see a lot of people at meetups, and they just come. Tell you, well, oh, hi, I'm such and such. I do this, this, this and this, and I, I closed the deal for this many million dollars, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, Okay, well, congratulations. There's a pat on the back. And, you know, you send them on the way, right? Because they're not, it's like they're just bragging. They're not. They're not actually adding, adding value to you. And that's what you have to do with other people. You have to not be pushy, you have to be personable and have some kind of, doesn't even matter what, just some kind of line to get in there. Like, you know, a lot of times I'll be at tech conferences, I'm like, What are you working on? You know, what are you building? You just inquire about what it is that they're doing. And if that's a passion, there's something that they're spending a significant amount of time doing, they're going to be more than willing to spew forth what they're doing. And then you can assess from there, like, Okay, what could I do for this person to help them? And then at the same time, you know they're in an industry where you know they could help me, whatever it's but you you have to add value to them first, otherwise they won't remember you, or they won't think you're valuable, and just so always be helpful. And I'll talk about examples, and, you know, just in the last few years where that's been huge for me, and then just, just, don't brag, don't don't be like I, you know, I got this much money to deploy on this or I've got this many doors in this town, you know, just try to, try to stay away from that. Just just humble and hardworking and helping people will get you further than anything else.

Speaker 2  11:31
I chime in on that too. I know. I know, when I was, we were trained in military recruiting, you know, you're sitting there wearing a uniform. People already know, okay, I don't, you know, I don't want this guy talking to me, but in order to engage you, you're asking those who, what, where, when, what? Because, hey, you know, you want to join the Air Force. No, I don't like hey, you know, but you're at a restaurant. Hey, what's the best thing to eat here? And you just get people talking, but it's those who, what, where, when and why, questions. And the other thing too is kind of like what you already said. It has to be of something of value to that person. And I always use it when I train people is like, Oh, I was gonna say everyone listens to the same radio station, and the radio station is W, i, i, f, M, what's in it for me? So when you're giving that value, you just got to know you got to know, you got to tune in to that station that they're listening to.

Unknown Speaker  12:23
That's, that's good. I'm going to steal that.

Speaker 1  12:27
I like that. Yeah, you know, when it all comes back to, if you want to really get in the nitty gritty of of this, it's, it's in Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends and Influence People. That's the master class on, on how to make quick friends, make people remember your name, make those those relationships, those acquaintances, that that are meaningful. I mean, that's every networking, every marketer you know, everybody that's in that that realm has read that book, and it's pretty dry. I'm not gonna lie, it's pretty dry, but, but you it is, and when you hear it, it's like, all straightforward things like, okay, that makes sense, but it just puts it down in a way where, you know it's it's easy to remember, and it just makes sense and it is useful. You know, that's salesman 101, is how to win friends and influence people, because that's what you're doing when you're networking. You're selling yourself without them knowing that you're selling yourself, right? So just, just remember, I don't care if you just started today or or you've been doing it for decades, everyone has a skill set. If you're just starting out, maybe your skill set is that you don't give up and that you're hungry and that you're willing to work harder than other people, if that might be it, you know, you're willing to work extra hours, whatever it is, you know, you might have, you might be younger and have tech skills and AI skills that someone that's older and hasn't been in it for a long time doesn't just that kind of stuff is Huge. But you every single person has a skill that they can offer that will help someone else. And then you need to define what it is you're doing. Don't be all over the place and get, you know, shiny object syndrome, where you learn about something new and like, Okay, do this. You know you're, I'm going to do real estate. It's really bad in real estate because there's so many different types of invest types of investments in real estate. You're like, Okay, I'm gonna get a single family home. Nope, no, I'm gonna get a multifamily nope, I'm gonna get a short term rental. I'm gonna get a midterm rental. Well, wait a minute, I'm gonna get a storage unit. Like, it's easy to see someone else being successful in a different vehicle, investment vehicle, and think, okay, that's what I want to do instead. But find out what works for you, and then get really good at that one thing you know, learn about other stuff for sure. But like, don't just jump from thing to thing to thing. Concentrate on the one that makes the most sense, and that's the one you do. Then maybe the next one. You can do something else. But like, know what it is you're trying to do. You. Know what, and that might be in business too. You know, like, don't look at $100,000 business. And a $10 million business doesn't really make sense. You know, what is your what is your Buy Box? You need to define that. This is what I'm comfortable with. This is at least somewhat the sectors you know that I that I like this is how much I have for a down payment. This is how many hours that I can put to whatever. But you need to know what your Buy Box is, and that way you can apply that, and you can start networking with people that do the same things. Because when you walk into a chamber of commerce, like get together and you don't know anybody, it's your first time, you know. You can tell pretty much, okay, there's the there's the mechanics, there's the landscaping guys, there's the plumbers, there's the lawyers, there's, you know, I mean, it's, it's pretty easy to see. And everybody comes in, you know, there was a truck or a car with the name of their business plaster on the side of it too, and they're handing out business cards. But just, just know your your zone of where you're focusing, and then practice your pitch. You're going to get a point in every conversation. So you've you've added value, you've offered to help them with whatever it is. So say, for instance, I'm at a chamber of commerce meeting, and I meet,

Unknown Speaker  16:20
I don't know. I meet somebody that as a

Speaker 1  16:25
doing real estate, you know what? No, let's say they're, that doesn't really make sense. Let's say they're a builder. You know, they they build big apartment buildings or whatever, what my my elevator pitch to them is going to be after I've, I've, you know, I've said, Hey, have you, you know, do you have people that do your landscaping and whatever? I know some really good ones. I can, you know, I can connect you with them, and if you give them my name, they'll give you a discount, because we're really close. Well, that's my company, but they don't need to know that. But I'm just, I'm offering value and saving them money all the same time. They're going to remember my name, because it'll get them a discount, if that's what they're looking for. So you get an in like that, and then you have what's it's like an elevator speech. And I don't really know why it's called an elevator speech, but what I always relate it to is that movie pursuit of happiness with Will Smith, and he's homeless, and him and his son are homeless, and he's got this X ray machine thing that he's invented, and he gets in an elevator with an executive, and he's got from the first floor to, like, the 19th floor, to be able to pitch him on this, this invention. So you get about 30 seconds to get all of your points out in a concise, clear way. So I would say something so, if it's a if it's a builder, you know, I would say something like, you know, in in property management, we do this, and we've managed this many doors. If you're planning on keeping this, you know, you might be able to maximize your profit with a good property manager, whatever, whatever. But you know what I'm saying, Don't go too long, and you have just like a small window of opportunity, and you need to be prepped for it. You need to know what your strengths are and be able to put those at the forefront of that speech. And then afterwards, if you do a good job, people are going to come back and they're going to check on you. So don't have a, you know, a Facebook page that is like Mickey Mouse smoking a blunt, you know, with an Uzi, like firing up in the air as your picture, or something crazy like that. Like, have it, you know, professional it looks like you as a responsible, rational human being, and just, you know, regular stuff, and then you should have some, you know, all good, clean social media for your business. So you just don't want somebody, because I know I'm always going to, that's the first place I'm going to go, is Facebook. If I meet somebody, I'm like, Okay, what are they doing? What's, what are they into? And, you know, if it's something crazy, no, it's a no go. And then business cards, you know, generic kind of business cards with your info on it. People still like that. They might not take your card, but they'll take a picture of it, because people like having cards lay around. And then the digital ones are really cool. So you can create a digital card. I think I have one. Let me see, this is like a one of our lawn care guys. Okay, so it doesn't show up on your phone, and it's got everything, everything that you need, the logo, you know, all the links. It's like a mini little website. And you just show them the QR code, and they can scan it, and then they have everything. They can make payments, they can get quotes, they can do whatever. So whatever your your your business is, if you're an investor, if you're looking to acquire a business, you know, you would still have, you know, email, phone, maybe a website, some kind of link to a blog or something about you. Or, you know, your Buy Box, what you're looking for, what's your experiences, all that kind of stuff. So that's that's very helpful, and it makes it look like, you know, you're you're modern. Okay, so who do you need to know? Now, I almost didn't put this on here with but business brokers. If you can, if you can network with business brokers in your area, it can help a lot. Most time they're jerks, but they can be really great if they know you're serious, and especially after your first acquisition. Once you buy one and they know you're already a business owner, it changes things. They start seeking you out because they want to sell that business. They just want somebody who's going to take it all the way through to the see it through to the end. So business brokers can be great, and they can also, if you're just, if you just level with them, like, Hey, I'm a first time buyer. I'm looking for this, you know, I'm looking for even somebody to help me through the process. But I don't want to have, you know, a broker as a buyer's agent, but I do still like to see deals. If you send me deals of what you're selling, you know, I would be a buyer. And then SBA lenders, for obvious reasons, once you get a rapport with them, and you can meet them at Chamber of Commerce meetings, you can meet them at, generally, not really real estate meetups, but you can, you can meet somebody in their firm that you know could refer you to them, and you can just call around you say, Hey, I'm looking to do this. You know, do you do SBA loan? Here's here's my particulars, here's my net worth, here's what I make, here's my credit score, here's what I'm looking for. Like, what, what kind of business would I need to find? You know, to make sense for your bank, and then for the SBA, they'll give you tons of information, tons of information. Practical go through them, kind of information. And we do have lenders in the community, you know, in the in the documents that you can go to, most of those are pretty far away. And I don't know if a lot of people are uncomfortable reaching out to a national bank that's, you know, couple 1000 miles away, and then CPAs and attorneys, you

Unknown Speaker  22:18
generally need a referral to find good ones.

Speaker 1  22:23
It's tough. Those are, those are two, two professionals that are difficult to find, but they need to be business CPAs and or real estate CPAs and business attorneys. And if you find a business owner at a chamber of commerce meeting, you can ask them, you know, do you have a good lawyer? Or, if you you know somebody that's got a property manager of a company or as a landlord of many doors, you know, what? What attorney do you use for evictions? Who, who writes up your contracts? You know, I'm looking for a good one, something like that. And real estate wholesalers, you know, you should if you're trying to buy real estate, you know, you should be friends with Eric and the community. He's a wholesaler, and he can get you deals because they've they specialize in finding deals that are off market, that are distressed, that are ready to go. And then contractors and property managers opt for the same exact reason. And and you can also meet these people on Facebook, Facebook groups. There's tons of wholesaling Facebook groups, but just be careful, you know, if it's somebody from, you know, selling a list of distressed properties and they're from Bangladesh or something, it's like, you know, and they want $3,000 for this list. It's probably not legit, but there are people on there who are so again, try to get referrals. So I think we talked about this a little bit, but Chamber of Commerce is huge. So if you have a business, you know, you have to pay your fees to get in there, but it opens up doors to all kinds of stuff. And you don't even have to have to have a large business. You can have an ad. You know, from home, you got an LLC. You're not really even doing very much. You can still sign up for the Chamber of Commerce generally. And then real estate meetups. So bigger pockets has a huge one. It's called BP con, where, if you want to meet all the big players, you can go to that you can just go in your in your area, and reach out and look on Facebook or Google it. You know, real estate meetups in my area, and there you can, you'll meet hard money lenders, private money lenders, other investors, builders, you name it. If you're in real estate, it's a great way to meet everybody in the game. LinkedIn is huge. If you have a good professional LinkedIn site that kind of details what you're looking for and what you're trying to do, and then Facebook groups, industry conferences, like I was talking about the tech conferences. If you're trying to buy a business in tech, or get an investor in tech, or you're looking to invest in tech, that's a great one. I. And then just local events, like, they'll have some little thing at a coffee shop, like this one down here called cars and coffee. Cars and Coffee is a group that meets their national and they meet, like, on Saturday mornings and they have coffee and they talk about cars like, he's pretty straightforward. But it's just people that tend to be a little bit older, that may be retired or semi retired. They might have businesses, they might invest or, you know, but you can just reach out, and if they they're not into it, they bet they know someone who is and then meetup.com that's the service they'll offer. Like, if you say, if you go to meetup.com and you say, real estate, they'll show you. Show you all the meetups and like, within 50 mile radius, something like that. It's okay. I don't know if you're looking for a contractor. What I found the best way to find a good contractor is to go to Lowe's 6am see the trucks that are there that are loading up at that hour. Those are the ones that are busy. There's a reason why they're busy. That's because they're the good ones, right? And you can just go up, just look at the side of their truck, if nothing else, and and see the name and like, okay, there's a reason why so many people are using them and they're here so early, is because they're probably getting stuff done that. That's a good one, though, because contractors so good contractors, so hard to find. So after you've established rapport, this kind of gets to, like, your, not quite your elevator speech, but like, just kind of breaking the ice still, and you can just kind of lay it out, like, what you do? You know, I help. So if I was just talking about this, I help people learn how to buy businesses so they can change their financial futures, you know, and something like that. Or I, I buy single family homes so I can renovate them and give, you know, regular working class families a good, safe, clean place to live. You know, I buy businesses so, you know, aging owners can know that they're going to have a buyer that will take care of their employees and protect the legacy of their business. You know. I mean, you can just see where all that goes. Keep it concise, confident and clear, though you don't want to be all over the place and and bragging about all the different stuff you do, but just one or two sentences that kind of describes, in a nutshell, what you do or are trying to do. So always ask open ended questions. Don't ask the yes and nos. This goes back to the Dale Carnegie. You know how I win friends and influence people, because this is what salesmen do. They schmooze you. They ask you question where you can't just say yes or no. They're going to keep you on the phone, same, same basic principle. So you know, who do you know that's looking to retire from their business? I'm I'm looking to acquire a business, and like to have an established one, and I think I'm really good with people, and I, I'm really interested in that, something like that. Do you invest in real estate? Or know someone who, who does in the area? And I should have put on there, if so, what's their name, you know? So just, you just don't want to say, leave it a yes, no. And then you can ask about their problems, mainly like, what's your your biggest bottleneck in your business or Or what do you find is the worst situation to deal with as a property manager or as a real estate investor, of you know, big apartment buildings, and then always offer to refer them to someone to help them. That comes back to that willingness to help, because when you're in this industry, you're always looking for good quality help services contractors. Doesn't matter what it is, but it's hard to find good people. And if someone is working for like, if I know Kevin's got a good contractor, and he just did this and this at their at his house, and everything worked out great. It was on time and on budget. I'm more likely to use them because I know they have a track record from someone that I trust, and then tools and technology so so say you go to a real estate meetup and you meet dozens of people throughout the day, you have to be able to keep track of it, because you're going to follow up. If it's a quality like lead that you know you could potentially network with, you want to keep track of them. You want to know their their first and last name. Have notes about what it is that they did, what they do, how you guys could could sync up and actually do deals together, whatever it is. And there are some good ones out there. I mean, you can use like HubSpot or air table, but a spreadsheet will work. You know, just a old, simple spreadsheet. You can search people on on LinkedIn and connect with them afterwards, so you have that connection right there. Zapier is, you know, once you put them in the CRM, like I was just talking about Zapier. You're in the community, it's a way to automate email responses. So you put somebody in your database and your and CRM is customer relation manager. That's the software. Sorry if I didn't say that. So you can put somebody in your CRM and then Zapier will automatically send them whatever email saying, hey, it was great to meet you. Blah, blah, blah. Look forward to our next discussion, so on, so on. And then when you're meeting a lot of people at one time, this is what's really big in tech right now, is, is telegram. So you just share your telegram handle. Telegrams like, it's like signal, or basically Facebook Messenger. It's like a fancy Facebook Messenger. But telegram is really easy because of the QR codes, and it's easy to link up. And if you don't want to do any of that, just simply use your your contacts on your phone's address book. You can put notes in there and search for those notes later. And then you can also, like on an iPhone, you can add a field to it, add a new variable, so you can add a variable as to what industry they're in, or, you know, something that makes sense to you. You just add a field and just put real estate as the text next one business owner, you know, so it labels that person. So when you're like, Okay, I want to check out all the real estate investors that I met at whatever you just search for that in your address book. You got a list of them, you can start texting

Unknown Speaker  31:22
them, super simple and cheap.

Speaker 1  31:26
So this is part of the challenge. Is to meet three new people per week if you can. It doesn't even matter where you're at. You have to get out, get outside of your comfort zone, and talk to people, just wherever you're at it does. It doesn't matter, like you might be at the grocery store. And just throw out some stupid line about the weather and start talking to people, because those skills will help you in the long run. You know, I think even more now than we ever were. We're like in this little box, we don't like to talk to anybody except through these screens, and when we get face to face with people, it's difficult to to be personable and and sociable and all that. But if your goal is to buy a business from someone from a different generation that doesn't rely on technology like the the younger generations. Do you have to have these skills? Because if you can't sit down in front of someone that is in their 70s and ready to retire and make you a good deal in this business and convince them, eye to eye, person to person, they're probably not going to want to sell to you, because they just don't understand doing business any other way. They want a good handshake. They want your word to matter. They want you to be on time. They want you to call them and not text them like those. Things seem simple, but it's huge. So, so if you have somebody in your address book, this is number two. If you have somebody in your address book, that's a good old contact that you know they're doing good things. They're doing big things. They might be able to have some kind of meaningful impact on what your current mission is, because you have to know what your mission is. So if your mission is buying a business that needs to be what it is, if your mission is real estate, that needs to be what it is, and if your mission is still learning that's okay too, that needs to be what it is, but know what your mission is, and then attend at least one event or meet up monthly. And you don't have to physically go somewhere. You can just sign up for a new Facebook group, tool around in there, look at different things that are going on and some of the interactions between members and who's really doing something and who's just talking about it. So when it comes to networking, I was thinking, I was trying to remember, like, how it really affected me. And if it wasn't for networking, I would have never bought my first business. I would have never known that this was something that I really wanted to do, because I was so focused on real estate. And the whole reason that so when I bought that, that four Plex, the whole reason that I, like, got a friendship with the guy that sold it to me was because he needed help, because he didn't understand technology. And everybody, once they find out that I'm a software engineer, they're like, Hey, can you help me with a website? Or can you, you know, my computer's got a virus, you know. And that was his thing, Mike, Mike, I got this laptop and it's so slow and it won't work. And I'm like, Yeah, I'll look at it. I said, you know, Bring it. Bring it. Bring it to the coffee shop, and I'll look at it and see if I can fix it. That was what started the whole thing. Then I was able to, you know, talk to him about landlording and just being, you know, a property manager and and that ended up becoming a property management business acquisition. From that one just me talking to him, he had a problem. I could help him, and me willing to help open up all these doors. From that one point, I. Um, yeah, and offered also an offer to help a contractor. So a guy asked me if I would help him with his website. He did. He did some fencing work for me. And I was like, Yeah, I'll help you with your website. It's just boring, right? I don't mind doing it, but it's, it's, it's not, I don't know. It's just not, it's not fun anymore. And so what? Since then, he has sent so many people my way that are either trying to sell a business, that are looking for consulting, or they're, you know, looking for something that one of my other businesses does. I mean, he's, I don't, it's dozens at this point, like he's like, throwing my name around all over the place because of that, it's been a ton of great leads. And every time I use this company, we I get a discount now, all from just me helping him that one time, you know, when just become friends and it's a business relationship, and then so this other one was, I had a so I have a website for the property management company. And somebody called me, and they didn't want property management. They just wanted to talk about real estate in this area. And I was like, Well, you know, I was in the middle of stuff. I'm always in the middle of stuff, but I I spent about 20 minutes talking to them about the area and where to stay away from. And you know what the rents are like, just kind of giving them a layout of basically mid Missouri, essentially, but specifically in my town and county. And then I didn't hear anything. I get a call, like, a couple months later, they have bought multiple buildings in town and want us to manage them. So it ended up being 30 units from that one phone call where I spent 15 to 20 minutes just chopping it up about real estate in the local area, and now we're doing rehabs for them. We're doing all kinds of stuff, but just from that one spot where I was kind of busy, and I could have been like, Well, I really don't have time to talk about this right now, but thanks for calling. But no, you know, I helped them, and now they're helping me. So always be ready to share your vision and offer value to other people, because that stuff will come back to you.

Unknown Speaker  37:13
So here's your homework, and

Speaker 1  37:15
you don't have to turn in or anything, but just think about your 32nd pitch like if you were in front of the person that could really help you with whatever your goal is, what are you going to say if you got 30 seconds to talk to them? You should know what those things are. You don't have to have it word for word, but you should know what you're going to highlight, what skills you're going to talk about, what challenges, whatever it's going to be. You need to know those things ahead of time, and then try to reach out to three people attend an event. And then here's, here's what I would really like everybody to do, is post in the community. What your goal is. This is, you know, this is my goal. I want to acquire in a business, a business between 350,000 to 700,000 in this sector, in this area, okay, throw it out there, because that's always going to be there in the community. And somebody joins, or somebody reads that, and they're like, Hey, I just saw one. Here it is. You know, you're trying to do this. Here's, here's a good opportunity. Maybe look at this one, so on and so forth. And then, you know, read other people's but you know, we should know what everybody's goals are here, whether it's real estate, whatever it is, and then try to try to rekindle a contact, if you already had a good one, if you remember the last like, 510, years, and there's somebody that you know that's doing the same things that you want to do, reach out to him. I mean, if it's an old friend, maybe you haven't talked. Haven't talked to him and get a little awkward. But who cares? Life's awkward. You know, it's worth it in the long run. So so yeah, we should know what everybody in this community is trying to do. So if you can post in the community. You could just somebody right now, could just throw a thread out there saying, Hey, here's the the goals thread. We want to know what everybody's trying to do. Bam, and then everybody can reply to it. And you can see, I want to buy real estate and I don't know Illinois, the Chicago and you know, City area, whatever, but that way it's out there, we all know, and you'll be able to possibly get leads from the community, because the more people we get, the more people that come in, The more value we can add to each other. So there you go. So it's a little bit, little bit quick tonight. Sorry, I was in the process of moving all week, so I couldn't, I couldn't blow your socks off like last week. But soon. So appreciate this. Yeah, yeah, no problem. Does anybody have any questions about any of that stuff?

Unknown Speaker  40:12
No, oh, I hope it was valuable. If you

Speaker 1  40:18
really want to get into it, How to Win Friends and Influence People, you can get the audio book on Spotify for free. Spotify for free. If you have Spotify Premium, you might even be able to get it for the free version, because it's so old, it's not there's no intellectual property rights on it. I don't think, I think it's over 75 years old, so, but it's, it's really good to learn this stuff about. We would consider it stroking someone's ego today, that would be the term, but

Unknown Speaker  40:45
it works. And I'll

Speaker 2  40:47
comment a little bit on what you're talking about in terms of, you know, contacting people and, you know, the personnel, the personable part of it. And I would say, even, you know, we may say, hey, you know these older people who may be retiring and when to when they go do something else with the rest of their life. I would even argue that even younger people, when it comes to things that are valuable to you, in relationships that matter to you, you may initially talk to people online. You may text that I was used to when I was training recruiters. I'm like, you know when when a guy and is serious about a girl, they text, maybe. But at the end, the idea is you're going to meet face to face, and you're going to engage with this person face to face. When you're going to buy a house, you can look at it all day long on Zillow or whatever. You're still going to go in person, because you're making an investment, and it will be probably one of the largest investments most people ever make. You take that with a business you yourself should want to go there and have the personal, personal thing about it, because if you're just reading this information on, you know, one of these websites, and to be able to ask the questions of people, you can ask a person anything online, but most of communication is nonverbal communication. When someone says, Hey, Shane, why you selling this business and you're given the nonverbals, yeah, that speaks more volumes. And say, Well, you know, I'm just looking to do, you know, something else, this, that another so you so it's to your own benefit to actually engage with the person, one on one, face to face, whatever, because you can get more information and and you can, you can, you know, find out your people can always still lie, but you just, it just reduces the risk of being fooled a little bit. You can, you can ask more probing questions. And I will say there are times where you, you will ask a closing question, because you even did it when you were doing with the with the gentleman who sell the first business to you. You went, like, Well, hey, would you look looking at selling it? And like, yes. So when you, when you open them up, open them up in sales. You want to open people up so you can close them, and you're closing them at the end with those yes or no. So hey, if you're, if you're serious about this, you know, you looking to sell it within the next, you know, 90 to 120 days, or 180 days. Oh yes, okay. Well, you know, if we can make that happen, you think you we can work this deal? Oh yes. So it's just, you're asking those probing questions to try to it's kind of like the shift is that, you know, poking the meat or whatever, to see if it's done. When you get the closing it's just really for your own understanding, because, like, hey, they're serious about it as well.

Speaker 1  43:19
Yeah, it's like a dance, yeah? I mean, really, you know, you just, you don't want to step on their foot, because that's it. It's over. You just have to know what to say, and it takes practice. But don't be just, don't be afraid to talk to people, because you'd be surprised how much people want to help others like that are in the same field like or how starved they are to talk about what it is that they're doing. So if they're passionate about it, and they really like that's why I love the lives, and I love doing this because, you know, I don't really have people I can talk about it. I mean, I can go to meetups and talk about it. I can. There's a few people in my area that are doing similar things, but for the most part, I'm just doing it, so I don't get to talk about it, so it just becomes something that's really fun. And you'll find that other people are like that too. If they're at that at a certain level, and they've been doing this for a while, they probably don't have a lot of peers that are doing the same things. So you could become that peer, even just or like a de facto mentee for mentorship from someone in person that's doing it, because that's common in business. Mentorship is a well known, you know, avenue to being a successful entrepreneur. It's not so much in real estate and other avenues, but business ownership and entrepreneurship, it's well known, it really helps, and that's because you get access to their network. Just makes sense. Okay? Yeah, thanks, Kevin, that was great. Anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 3  44:58
No. Nice Christian, and I got a bit of a statement, less than a question, maybe a bullet we can add onto there. When I was screening through some of these businesses, one of them was one that didn't look really stellar. It had some holes in it and some blank spots. I'm sure I've talked to you about it before, but I got invited to do a coffee meet with, you know, the owner and the broker, and I think that would be a good idea, even if you don't, since a lot of us are newer to it, even if you're not positive or you're on the negative of buying it, just getting out in front of a potential buyer can weed out a lot of understanding about like, questions they're going to ask, what's the broker's involvement? What's the buyer, what's the seller's involvement? How is this communication going to go? How much detail will they give you? You know, what kind of probing questions? And it made me less nervous, because I wasn't totally bought into the the purchase anyways, but it was a good experience when it comes to, like, actual learning, rather than learning that with something I really wanted to invest in.

Speaker 1  46:10
Yeah, I think that's, that's a great point. Like, it's, it's like, dance practice right before, before the big dance, like, because you, you don't have any emotions in it. You're not really excited. You're not, you're not, you know, really want to close that deal so you can figure out what questions to ask, What you shouldn't ask, how to talk to an owner the right way? Because there, there's a certain way to talk to owners, you know, the same the same way we're talking about networking, the same way you talk to owners. You know, you want to know what they're why they started the business. You know, what was this? Your dream growing up to be a business owner, you know, what's been the most challenging part? Like, what's been the most rewarding part? Like, whatever. You're not even talking numbers. You're not talking anything. You're just like Kevin was saying, you know, opening them up to where they're going to give you more information than they normally would where they you know, you build a bond, and then who knows, even if it's a bad deal right now, they might really like you, and you know, think you'd be great for their business and drastically cut the price to make sure that you know it goes to the right person, to protect their employees, to protect their legacy, their name. You know, you just never know and it can't or what's the worst thing that happened? You you know you make an ass of yourself, and you never see those people again. Still, you still learn something, right? It's who cares. I'm good at making an ass of myself. I do it on the regular. Yeah, great point.

Unknown Speaker  47:39
Also, I just want to add Shane

Unknown Speaker  47:42
in one of the podcasts there was a long time ago.

Speaker 4  47:46
There was a story that one seller was trying to sell like a $2 million business. It was getting retired, and a lot of buyers reached to him, even like private equities, yeah, and he didn't want to sell to private equity, so instead, he found a he met with one person, and he sold to him, just because he, like, came here and he built up a good connection. I think he even sold for less than he could have sold, like a to private equity, but he got a pretty good deal, just because, I think when he asked me in the the reason why he wanted to buy his business, he said he had two kids, and he just want to send them to the good school. So the owner, he liked that, and he just basically gave the business

Speaker 1  48:42
Yeah, that's the way we compete with private equity, because you can't out out buy them. You can't outbid them. But no owner, especially a, you know, someone who started it and put their life's work into it, wants to sell to a PE firm. They just don't, but they will. But if they have a choice between somebody like, like us or a private equity firm that's going to chop it up, you know, make it corporate, franchise, it, stuff like that, they're usually going to pick us, because we build that relationship, and it's going to be more like the business that they they wanted it to be.

Unknown Speaker  49:21
But, yeah, you can't outbid them. You know, that's a great point.

Unknown Speaker  49:32
Okay, I'm gonna stop and record.
