Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're getting ready to start the mentorship portion. It is Thursday, November 20, 2025

Unknown Speaker  00:11
we just had a class on creative

Speaker 1  00:15
business acquisition strategies, and we're getting ready to talk to George, because George had bad news this week. What's up?

Speaker 2  00:24
George? Oh, yeah. So the 2 million kind of deal fell through. It was just one thing after another. First he the old buyer came back who couldn't get the loan. And I don't know if they have more cash or something. They're trying to work out of cash till now. And like, a day before the meeting, the broker asked me for a verbal range, and then she told me that the artwork inside the building isn't included. They want another 200 grand for that. That wasn't said anywhere. I mean that it was on the walk through tour. It creates an environment of it. I don't want to spend a month finding new artwork or anything like that. There's no valuations. It's just personal sentiment that he thought was worth 200 grand, and I don't know he wasn't happy with the offer of 2 million When listing price is like 2.3 so this is too many things that you know, it's not really gonna be able to work. I don't even know if it get approved by the bank. So and they wanted an APA right away. They wouldn't take LOI.

Unknown Speaker  01:38
So that's not going to be the one for us. Yeah, that's a lot of

Speaker 1  01:43
red flags right there, especially that artwork thing, when they spring just a couple $100,000 you know, Adam out of nowhere, no, because that's just the first one. They would come back. Once you went to, you know, a purchase agreement, and you're going back and forth, they would throw all kinds of junk in there? Yeah, no way.

Speaker 2  02:02
And then when I was reviewing the APA, there was no non compete, because he owns, like, other restaurants in the area, and they want to itemize all the inventory when normally it's included, like, it's just, I don't know, he's not the type of seller I'd want to buy from. I don't think, yeah, yeah, the numbers are good on the, you know, the presentation, but maybe feels a different owner or something.

Speaker 1  02:29
Um, well, I mean, you made your offer, if the other buyer, if it falls through, you know, you just, this is, this is one of those situations where you just say, like, I made my offer. You don't want to do it.

Speaker 2  02:41
Okay? Well, actually, I revoked the offer because we were supposed to meet the day that this all happened, and he didn't want to meet because he was trying to work out the deal with the other seller. And I'm like, I'm okay, sure, but then we're not interested anymore. Like, that's just kind of unprofessional. You know, we already had something planned now the day of you want to cancel, like, so I just don't want to, you know, he's not interested in us. We're not shredding his business,

Unknown Speaker  03:13
okay, yeah, I can

Speaker 2  03:15
respect that night. Um, kind of what I told you when we first joined the meeting, I got an email from another broker. This guy is basically saying he'll pay us 100,000 to take the business off his hands. I have a Google Doc as usual to send over to you. Okay with some of the numbers. I

Unknown Speaker  03:49
I think it's the wrong link. Whoops, that's the wrong screen. I

Speaker 2  04:10
so obviously it's going down in decline. On the guy's really old, he doesn't want to

Unknown Speaker  04:18
put the effort into like turning it around.

Unknown Speaker  04:22
Do there's a lot of issues on the health inspections recently.

Speaker 2  04:28
It's a sushi hibachi kind of place, okay? Down the line there's like, all the employee counts, and it's a pretty big place. Physically, it's like 7500 square feet, right? It's like 30 grand a month, which is why I'm assuming he is like paying us to take over the lease, because he's gonna lose more than that under grand if he doesn't, you know, give it to someone else, right? I. Um, they don't have 2025, numbers. I'm waiting for the broker to get that for me. He said he asked the owner for it, but, um, I don't know, obviously, if it wasn't something where he said I'd pay you to take it, I wouldn't even consider it. But I don't know you ever seen anything like that?

Speaker 1  05:21
No, no, I would be terrified, though. I mean, I mean, just, just how much it's trending down, you know, that's, that's substantial, you know. And if 2025, numbers, is going to be another, you know, eight, 900,000 less in sales. I mean, they must be hemorrhaging money every single month.

Unknown Speaker  05:51
So what is the

Unknown Speaker  05:54
what's their lease? How much is their lease payment?

Unknown Speaker  05:58
It's around 30 grand a month. I think 31

Speaker 2  06:11
Yeah, the rent last year was 370, K so yeah, in that ballpark of I do see the two managers that are pretty overpaid. Maybe there's some room there if you let them go, Yeah, maybe.

Speaker 1  06:34
But, I mean, you let both of them go and you still don't you just almost have half of the lease payment.

Unknown Speaker  06:47
So the currently says 17,000

Speaker 2  06:51
have a slip and fall claim. I don't know if it's, oh yeah, it is in there, but I'm assuming that liability wouldn't transfer with an asset sale, or how that would be structured. It's not really a sale, no.

Speaker 1  07:05
I mean, you would be coming in with a brand new so you would have to, you know, specifically name that in the purchase agreement. And, you know, you would do an asset sale where you've got your, you know, new EIN and new LLC, you're just buying the assets and the name, yeah, and you have an indemnity clause in there too, just in case, so you're kind of triple protected.

Unknown Speaker  07:31
Yeah, that wouldn't scare me too much,

Unknown Speaker  07:36
but what scare me is the numbers

Speaker 1  07:40
and who in the right mind would pay someone to buy their business?

Speaker 2  07:47
I don't know. I kind of was pretty shocked when I got the email and popped off on my phone from the broker, kind of breaking down situation. 100 grand to remodel it, like, if we're gonna, because some people say there's like, a smell to the restaurant and, like, I don't know happened to I know they have a lot of health violations. Like they did get shut down for like, a day. My mom, like, pulls all the reports for the restaurants and all that,

Speaker 1  08:24
yeah, it would be very difficult to overcome that stigma in the community too. Everybody knows that gross restaurant that gives people food poisoning and you know, hmm, yeah, yeah. And oh, there's the 2024, numbers.

Speaker 2  08:46
Okay, yeah, I do know I have another location, um, I don't know the numbers for it. Maybe if we could, like, roll them into one deal, if the other one's doing, well, maybe this is like a turnaround project, even if we like change the concept, at least we got like 100 grand from the seller to renovate it. I

Speaker 1  09:20
um, I mean, there, there's ways to, like, you know, somebody's got a car that's, that's, that's quite a bit right there in those ad backs for entertainment and travel. Well, I guess that was just one year, wasn't it? Yeah, I don't know. It can't hurt to to investigate further. It can never hurt to investigate further. But, man, I would, I would be very, very cautious with this. I.

Speaker 2  10:02
Yeah, again, I wouldn't even consider it if he wasn't paying us 100 grand. So that's the only reason. But you know, if it's too good to be true, there has to be some kind of cats. I mean, yeah, any place yet,

Speaker 1  10:17
maybe he's sick. Maybe there's some, you know, personally, he just has to get let it go. Because, you know, I don't know, you might find it to be something like that. And then also, just like what we, we just talked about, maybe there's a creative financing strategy in here where you can say, Okay, I'm not going to put any money into this, I will come in and I'll turn this place around. And, you know, in six months, if I've grown the revenues by 20% you gave me 25% of the business, and then we enter into a purchase agreement that is these terms, you know, you could do something like that, and then that way you're going to limit your risk other, you know, to just time and effort

Speaker 2  11:05
and that just be so I'm not responsible for the rent because, like, the restaurant's free, like he's not gonna charge us anything.

Unknown Speaker  11:12
What do you mean the restaurant's free?

Speaker 2  11:16
Like there's no price for it, like he's not I don't have to pay him at all. He's only paying us the

Speaker 1  11:23
100 grand. Oh, like there's no price at all. He just can get no price.

Speaker 2  11:28
I'll show you the email. It says purchase price free with 100k back for renovations. Huh? Why? Wow. So really, my only concern is the rent. I mean, that's a $360,000 concern, yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm not saying it's like nothing, yeah. That's just the big, big concern there.

Speaker 1  11:59
Sure, and I would want to see that lease. That would be my first question is, let me see the lease is, can you sublet? Is that, you know what? Why is one thing that it's so expensive, but you know, if it's a if it's a good location, is it a good location? I assume it is.

Speaker 2  12:18
It's a good location. It's a really good part of, like, the Orlando metro area. It's huge, 7500 square feet. Most restaurants are, like, 4000 5000 Yeah. Biggest kitchen I've seen on any restaurant I've looked at. There's like a 3d walk through where you can, like, see everything, and

Unknown Speaker  12:43
maybe that's really just, maybe it's too

Speaker 2  12:45
big management issue, or, yeah, could be that, you

Speaker 1  12:49
know, they're wasting space that they don't need, that that the customer base can't sustain, you know, because it's, it's all about revenue per square foot. And if, if you've got a low revenue per square foot, maybe you can put a second business in half of it, you know, slice some of that off. Do something else, I don't know. Do catering. I don't know, but that's pretty scary. But why not get more information? See what the deal is. Yeah, I know that lease for sure,

Speaker 2  13:30
like, just like the price on the lease, or what do you just

Speaker 1  13:33
the lease terms and everything like you, you're going to want to see those. You're going to want to see the current lease. Because is it a 10 year lease? You know what? I think it's five, okay, a fresh five.

Speaker 2  13:48
I think it expires in 29

Unknown Speaker  13:54
pretty fresh. Yeah,

Speaker 3  14:03
what if there's too much, like, debt or something like, maybe that's why they sell. I mean, they're giving up almost for free, right? Maybe, yeah,

Speaker 1  14:12
maybe they're just going to give it away and then file bankruptcy.

Unknown Speaker  14:18
Yeah, I don't know.

Speaker 1  14:21
My my concern would be that the business how long has it been around,

Speaker 2  14:28
more than 15 years. At least some of the reviews are like from 2000

Unknown Speaker  14:35
I don't know, before I was born,

Speaker 1  14:39
my concern would be that the landlord has possibly priced them out of profitability, so they probably had a pretty good lease for a long time. We're making good money. And then, you know, commercial property has appreciated so much, and rents have gone up so much in the last. Five years, you know, post covid, that might be what it is. But, yeah, I would just look into it. See, you know, maybe they're sick, maybe they have debt, maybe there's it could be all kinds of things that could happen, but at the same time, you're talking about a $360,000 risk per year. Yeah, and, I mean, he's, what about all the equipment? You get all the equipment with it too. You don't have to pay for that. Yeah, everything, nope, all the inventory,

Speaker 2  15:30
everything, everything, completely free, with 100k back to us for taking over the lease. Basically, that's a

Unknown Speaker  15:42
new one. I've never heard that.

Speaker 2  15:45
Me neither. I almost didn't believe it when I read the email. Do you

Unknown Speaker  15:51
mind if I make a post about that?

Speaker 2  15:54
Sure the email, if you'd like,

Unknown Speaker  15:58
yeah, yeah, I would love to see that.

Speaker 1  16:03
Yeah, I'm curious about this one. Um, just to see what you can find out. Who knows, and are you the only person they made that deal to?

Speaker 2  16:14
No, I'm assuming they sent it out to a bunch of people who had previously signed the NDA. But I'm not sure. I mean, they might have sent it because we, I did send him, like resumes and all that, so he knows we have restaurant experience. Because that's a big thing, obviously, for them, and this whole situation, to maybe send it out to only

Speaker 1  16:38
the owners is it's still like it's the older owner, or the owner didn't pass away, did they? And then went to the kids or something?

Speaker 2  16:46
No, he's just, like, really old. He's ready to, like, retire

Speaker 1  16:49
and, okay, maybe he just made so much money, he doesn't care. He just wants done. I

Unknown Speaker  17:04
yeah, that is very interesting. Do

Speaker 2  17:07
you think there's any chance the landlord would kind of like, make us a new lease, but maybe a little bit better rent, or, like, pause the rent for like, three months while we're like, stable, yeah.

Speaker 1  17:19
I mean, an abatement is something that happens all the time. A rent abatement for renovations, because you're, you're going to be improving their building, you know, if it's really run down and it's and it's older, you're going to be coming in, you're going to say, Okay, I'm going to, I'm willing to put in $100,000 into this business. So give me three months of 50% rent or something like that, and I'll, I'll do the renovations on on your your property. So, yeah, I mean, it happens. It happens quite often, but that means that they would have to let the old tenant out of the lease and sign a new lease with you. And because, if it's if that's not already in the lease, you know, it's hard to hold them to it, because you want that in writing. Just because they say, yeah, yeah, we'll give you an abatement. No, no, that has to be a contract for sure.

Speaker 2  18:19
Yeah, definitely. And you know that that's a good idea.

Speaker 1  18:23
Yeah, that's a good idea. I mean, you could, you could help yourself out, right there, you know, till you get your, you know your bearings and see you just never know, right? You you reach out to brokers, and you talk to people, and then someone offers to give you a business and 100 grand

Speaker 2  18:46
crazy world. Yeah, I don't think I'll ever see something like that again.

Speaker 1  18:53
No, you know, because part of me is like, well, Don't look a gift horse in the mouth, and the other part of me is like, no, there's, there's no free lunches. This doesn't happen. So I'm like, I keep going back and forth between that. It's like, I don't know.

Speaker 2  19:12
No, that was definitely what our initial thoughts were, too. When we, like, kind of talked it over in the family, we kind of dumbed it down to, he's probably, like, losing money from the rent or something, or has to be something like that. I mean, yeah,

Speaker 1  19:38
yeah, I don't know. They don't. They don't give you a lot of information here to be able to discern what's actually going on. So that year to date statement is going to be a huge one too. You know, you want to do anything until you see that year to date.

Unknown Speaker  19:55
I mean, this number might be 1.5 million. Now I.

Speaker 2  20:00
I could be, I don't know. I just thought it was crazy. So want to bring it up.

Unknown Speaker  20:10
Yeah, yeah, definitely.

Speaker 2  20:13
Do you know coming up on the year end, everyone's gonna have full year 25 numbers? Do you see normally, a lot of businesses being listed around January? Because right now I'm not knowing, a lot of No, this

Speaker 1  20:29
is traditionally the slower time going into the holidays. People don't want to deal with it. There. They say things like, well, I'll just wait till next year and I'll have all my financials and everything like, so a smart business owner that wants to sell his business will it takes about two years of prep to get the best deal they can get, which means, you know, you're going to make the books iron clad. You're going to make sure all your numbers are good. You're going to you're going to get rid of some of those add backs. You're going to make everything look good on paper, and yeah, you, you definitely would you see is usually, like March, April, that's that's when businesses start hitting because they've got, they've done their tax returns, they've done all that stuff. They have their financials for last year, they've been prepping for it, and they're ready to go. But, yeah, going into the holidays, not really, unless it's a hard luck case like this, people that have to sell,

Unknown Speaker  21:26
you know, yeah,

Speaker 1  21:29
but no, no, not usually. This is pretty much the slowest time of the year as the holidays.

Speaker 2  21:37
And it definitely feels like it is maybe like, 10 businesses of like, kind of the skill or, you know, in our area, at least, like within our drive.

Speaker 1  21:50
But you're doing the right thing, though, because you're reaching out to brokers. Right brokers are contacting you the next the only other thing you could do is just cold call. Start calling these places. Start showing up. See, you know, see what can happen. What's, what's the one restaurant in Orlando that you would love to own, like that would be the premier one, or the type or the location of where it's at, or whatever. Start calling those places. You just never know. And even if they don't want to sell now, you just keep bugging them, and maybe in March or April, they do, yep, I

Speaker 2  22:29
feel like, if I call that, I'll probably just get like, the cashier or something.

Speaker 1  22:38
Yeah, it depends on the size, yeah, you might have to sneak in there, find out when the owner is going to be there and intercept them.

Speaker 2  22:49
Yeah, maybe, yeah. I did have, there's a Korean restaurant, like Korean barbecue kind of thing. It's smaller, but like, I really like the owners, like, I love the environment, but it's too small for us to, like, fully purchase it, because there's not enough stuff. You know, they're kind of working there all the time. Is there any kind of way? Like, I don't know, I'd like to do some kind of business with them, but it can't be a traditional purchase, like, we're gonna just own the full thing. And, like, I don't want to have to run it like it's, you have to, know, Carine to really run that place, you know, because a lot of the clientele are, like, Caribbean and,

Speaker 1  23:42
yeah, yeah. That's a tough one, because that's one of those businesses that the owner is so integral to running it day to day, that you pull them out and it fails. I would not want to. I don't think there's a way to make that work unless they become an employee and then then that comes with the the obstacle of, they can't make the decisions on the business. They're watching you change things, and they're trying. They're dealing with it day to day. And then it just, it creates all this conflict. And yeah, there's just no way unless, unless you already know someone who is a good Korean barbecue operator that you could bring in as a GM. But, I mean, where are you going to find somebody like that that's so specialized niche? Yeah, that's going to be tough. And then if you do find one, there's probably only that one person. And if you know, if they decide that they don't like that business and they take off, and then you're stuck, because you're stuck doing the barbecue yourself,

Speaker 2  24:51
yeah, I don't know. I'll figure something out eventually. Maybe in March, something good will come up.

Speaker 1  24:59
Then. Yeah, well, I mean, you for them, you have the benefit of having the restaurant industry background. And then there's so many restaurants for sale, they you know much more than other types of businesses, generally. So it's going to happen. It's definitely gonna happen.

Unknown Speaker  25:30
Hope so patience. Did you have

Speaker 1  25:33
the the salon going? What's what's going on with your salon?

Speaker 3  25:36
Lord Shane, this, that's a trust issue, because I believe that they were talking to me. I didn't really look deeply at the numbers. So when I took a close look, I was like, when? So he sent me. He was like, we needed something to be signed before we can release the tax return or something. But then he turned around and he sent me a tax return like, Hey, don't let the lady know. I'm like, How am I supposed to I'm not gonna go past you and be talking to her. So he sent me some tax document, and the tax document just look 360 degree different from his postings, his claims and everything. So I was like, Hey, what's going on here? Can we talk like, I don't see the thing you posted about this business. The tax return is now reflecting that. And he was like, Yeah, you know, businesses, that's how they make money. You know, they don't really like disclose everything. So he's trying to make me believe that businesses is just the way it works in America. Like they for them to make money, they have to, like, conceal some things, but you better believe me, the books are reflecting the numbers that you see there. And I was like, You know what? I didn't even get back to him. I just feel like, Yeah, I can't trust this person. So I didn't even get back to it.

Speaker 1  27:21
Well, your source of truth is the tax returns. It's that's always going to be what you fall back on, because if you're trying to get funding, that's what the bank's going to use, that's what the SBA is going to look at. So, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  27:36
Whatever story he told me before was, was a made up story. Yeah, it didn't make sense because I told him. I said, Hey, there's so many mismatch with whatever you the picture like he's a broker that is so seasoned, so he knows what to spill out there to get people to look in the direction of the business, but the tax return were not adding up. And then when I called him, he was like, Oh, I'm so busy right now. If you have any question, put them in writing. So I'll send them to the owner. But I already know. My gut was already telling me, like, no, if upfront, somebody can be, you know, outrightly lying, and not before, with everything about the business, then this is not what I want to deal with, right? If it's, yeah, if it's good, someone else would have purchased it as well. Yeah.

Speaker 1  28:37
The process is, you know, you look at the listing, the listing has the number, you know, the numbers that you think, you know, this is what, what they're claiming. Then you get the financials, you know. Then you're, you're comparing the financials against what they said in the listing. And you've got to the second stage, where you got the tax returns, and it's wildly different. You walk, you know, you know. You know what I mean, they can claim, they can say whatever, and they're doing this, and they're doing that, and they're, you know, hiding money here and hiding money there. Doesn't matter, like you don't want to be a part of that, and you can't, you can't verify any of that, even if it was true. So if they're doing cash only deals and whatever under the table, maybe it's making more money than what the tax returns say. But how do you know that for sure? There's no way you can ever know that for sure, so you're taking a huge risk based on someone's word that is already lying to multiple people. So why wouldn't they lie to you?

Speaker 3  29:36
Yeah, because they clean the business was having a sales of like 200,000 I mean, I didn't see anything to that in the tax return. And then the year before that, 2023 think 2023 into 2024 or 24 into 25 one of those. And I. I had, actually, I had, I have the tax return, and I worked on a, you know, kind of plotted their information I was going to send that because, first of all, it was so difficult to get the information. Whatever he sent to me, he was sending it through Dropbox, and it was so difficult to extract, like, I don't know who's to use this Dropbox. So it was so hard. Then I finally got it, and I was like, something does not add up here. Like, you know, in one year, they were actually a claim, a loss. I'm like, lost. You made this business look rosy, you know, on everything you did three years in a row, but I'm looking at this tax return, and there's a loss here, like no thank you. So I didn't even get back to him in a very polite way to say, hey, I don't want no more. I just walked away like but then I my other guy that was selling the beauty shop. He lives in neighborhood. Of course, I go there to purchase this, and twice I've been there, he will just act like he didn't even remember we had something going on. His wife will be nice. I think the wife was nudging him like, this lady's Nice. Let's sell it, because it's both of them together. She's getting ready like she's tired. She she wants to go, she love what she does, but she feel like they old, and they've been like, really, like, you know, nice couple together selling there for all these years. So the last time i i stopped by on Saturday to purchase something. And I purchased something, I ran into someone that I know there or from the church, and we said hi to each other, and we talked. And then I left, and then come Sunday morning, late morning, I didn't know he had called me, and he was like, yeah, do you still I looked at my phone and saw this call. Okay, so why is he calling me? You know? So he called, and he gave me three conditions, like Do you are you still interested in this beauty shop? You still have the zeal to buy a beauty shop? I said, Of course, I do. And then he said, Do you have cash to purchase? I said, Well, I don't have cash, but I have money. I can pull money from somewhere. And then the third question was, have you reached out to the landlord if he wants to sell? So the thing though, was he said he will sell it, and he wants to sell now for $80,000 80,000 hmm, $80,000 is like, yeah, I feel like I want you are like, I still, I've looked at other people and I've, you know, you're still the person that I really want to start the business. So he's talking $80,000

Speaker 1  33:18
now, what was the original asking price.

Unknown Speaker  33:21
It was, remember, it was 181

Unknown Speaker  33:24
80, and now it's down to 80.

Speaker 3  33:26
Yeah, it was 180 and then we, we priced 150 and he's like, No, and that was, like, couple of months ago. And I don't believe, like, I don't think he has sold up to that amount, but I feel like he got to a point now that he's just ready to back up and go. But the only thing is inventory. Yeah, the thing is, there is potential here in the business. There is potential. And I also have a fancy who this is his industry as well. Like this potential to take this to so he's been selling all these years, just in the neighborhood whoever walks through. So there's a potential to take it online, and do so much with it,

Unknown Speaker  34:24
and do marketing and other things. So

Speaker 3  34:28
I don't know at this point if you think there's something fishy here.

Speaker 1  34:32
Well, I mean, think about this. So he just gonna, he's gonna discount it 100,000 because he likes you no so I I would be concerned that maybe he's gotten rid of a lot of the inventory, or he gave you a price of 180 before with inventory, and now it's 80 without inventory, and you'd still have to do some kind of deal after acquisition to purchase the inventory, to sell. Um. Um, some, something's going on there. There's some a little bit of of shenanigans. But no one's gonna, you know, if he went down 20,000 okay, but no one's gonna, you know, discount it. You know, over, over 50% in unless something has happened or they've changed something. So how much money was it making? What was the cash flow in that business?

Speaker 3  35:29
The cash flow, it wasn't a lot. It wasn't a lot. The cash flow, let's see. I think it was, it was 222, 20 something, but he did a lot of claim in terms of like cost of goods sold. I think that was his own thing, compared to the next one, where the numbers did not match up at all. In his case, the numbers matched up, but he hyped up his cost of goods sold. He hyped up his like, his expenses. So much there, the profit wasn't a lot, but there was him hyping up, hyping up things. It was very obvious that, yeah, you wouldn't be in business. And if, if everything is this expensive. So his sales record did match whatever he filed for tags, his expenses were just extremely high,

Speaker 1  36:37
well, but that was the revenue, right? What was the the profit, right? He was his,

Speaker 3  36:43
oh, the profit was in, I believe it was about 80,000 I haven't looked back at it,

Unknown Speaker  36:52
yeah, he's dropped it well,

Speaker 3  36:55
when I compared to what he was,

Speaker 1  36:58
yeah, he's dropped his price to 1x of of cash flow, so it might just and he's there all the time, right? He works full time. His wife works full time, and they be leaving the business. So that's not, that's not that that's more realistic in what he should have been asking to begin with, because they're so entwined with that business? Yeah, I don't know I would, I would definitely be concerned that he dropped it down that much. I would ask him, because he's, he's claiming it's because he wants to sell to you, and that's, that's a lie. They don't

Speaker 3  37:38
know he, he was saying that he's ready to be done, okay, that he don't want to stay past December, but I know you were talking to, yeah, yeah, he did say like he he don't want to be I already had a strategy what I was going to do because of the name and The location. I was just waiting for him to, like, say whatever he wants to see and be done and be gone. And I was gonna go and ask the owner for the space and just start. But, you know, I wouldn't know where he's getting his inventory and every other thing from, or I wouldn't know the in and out of the trade itself. But my question is, I know, when you were talking to George, something popped out to me. So for a business that is selling at the end of the year like this, is not waiting till the tax season to file tax, how would that look on my stuff, on my part?

Speaker 1  38:44
Well, I mean, you would still, you would just be liable for, you know, filing taxes for the amount of time that you've been in it. So if you, if you bought it in December, you're just going to have a small amount of accounting for that business, it's going to make you know you already have a lot of stuff going on when you buy a business, so it's going to be tough to buy the business. Get all your accounting right, get your tax returns filed and all that stuff. But you can always do an extension too. So you can just file for an extension, get everything together, and then, you know, you have all the way until Sheesh. What is it may or something like that, or to do, or June.

Speaker 3  39:31
So do you think he's been strategic with this time of the year to exit at this point? No, it

Speaker 1  39:38
sounds like it's, I mean, if he just wants to be gone by December, it just sounds like he's just doesn't want to deal with it anymore.

Speaker 3  39:47
The whole neighborhood were tired of him because he claimed he was gonna sell. And the people in the block that I knew who owned other businesses, they thought he was playing games that he. He actually was trying to be smart, because he put a lot of stuff, like 20% off, 30% off. So he's been selling. He's been selling, but that, for me right now, with the 80 that he's asking, is more of the potential that is in there that I'm looking at, not just like the goats. So the potential of the name is like buying a goodwill, the name and the ability for me to automate the sales system compared to what he's doing right now and then, to have online presence as well, where a lot of shops are no longer brick and mortar anymore. A lot of people want to be home and buy things and, you know, have it shipped to them, and then I'm thinking about like, possibility of like, within certain mileage in the neighborhood, you purchase something, we will bring it to you, or we will send it to you, know. So this, there's that potential there with the business, you know. So that's what I'm looking at. But at the same time, I It's never rocking, because it's like, you're very forced purchase, you know, like, I feel like, you know what I'm talking about. So I'm a little I'm a little scared, but at the same time, I've already started talking. I talked to my lawyer then and then I also went to the bank. My lady is, you know, so I told her, like, I do have, like, up to 20,000 down payment that I can bring. So she's like, Okay, if that's and how much do I want us? I want 100 so she's like, okay, she knows something. Like, you know, she's pretty nice. Like, telling me five, 100 that will knock it a little below hundreds, just a few 1000 below 100, so the process is more easier to be able to get so,

Unknown Speaker  42:09
yeah, so I just,

Unknown Speaker  42:12
I don't know, I'll keep in touch.

Speaker 3  42:16
I know it's a small business. It's really small, but given my condition and where I just want to be somewhere, or start from somewhere, and then work my way to, you know, with the knowledge of what I acquire and to take it from there. Yeah, cuz financially, I'm not in a space where I can really bite so much, just given where I'm coming from. Okay, I'm

Speaker 1  42:44
coming just, just be careful. Make sure that, make sure that he hasn't gotten rid of a whole bunch of inventory, and that's why it's much cheaper. And don't let them trying to get out quickly. Put you into a bad deal, because they're trying to pressure into a quick sale. So just, just be careful about those things. But, you know, it's always about the numbers, and if the numbers work, it's close, and you it's a business that you like and you're passionate about, and you feel like you can, you know, you can grow that business, and it's currently already making money. It's not failing. You know, those are the things that matter, and as long as it services the debt

Unknown Speaker  43:27
and makes money, that's, that's what we're in it

Speaker 3  43:30
for, right in terms of service and the debt with inventory right now, how well, or how best, can I estimate that because I went into the shop, is, is they stay inventory, but not as much as what was there before. So at this point, like, what is my best way to estimate that? Will it be? Because I was I went in and I asked him, like, hey, when you are running low on inventory, how do you track those? And I realized he doesn't have any of those automated system. He said, Oh, I used to have that it wasn't working, or I didn't like it, because it end up like signaling them to bring product that are not selling, or they keep bringing things even though I'm not selling those things. So I'm always backed up, and things are all here. So he stopped doing that. He started eyeballing and all this. He was doing it that Mama, old Papa style, where, okay, this thing is running short, and I gotta go get this so I don't know what is my best shot at, like, really eyeballing the inventory to make sure that I don't put myself in a short

Speaker 1  44:40
well, he should have a all the inventory accounted for. That should be he's got to have some kind of inventory management software or something, even if it's just a spreadsheet, or he's managing that inventory somehow. Okay, okay, so you're going to want to see all that.

Speaker 3  44:57
And would you think I do? You think I should still look for the. Year to date, sale or, oh, yeah, with the percent going on, the sale is just making people to, like, come more. And would that matter at this point?

Speaker 1  45:10
Yeah, you just want to make sure that that it's not trending downward. Like, you know, why it? Are they selling right now? Because they just got old and they're just done with it, or did something turn and change to where they're just they're losing money? You just want to make sure that that that it's still maintaining the same numbers that you already saw from last year and the year before, right?

Unknown Speaker  45:34
Okay, and then my last question will be, it

Speaker 3  45:42
just escaped me right now. So the sales they're doing, he's been running promotion closing 20% off, 30% off. So with that, give me a false sales.

Speaker 1  45:58
Like, like, false numbers. You mean false numbers? Yeah, well, I mean it that it'll probably show more. You know, the the volume is going to be more, but the the margins will be lower because it's, it's highly discounted, discount. I mean, it's, it does sound like, like, like, even if you don't buy it, they're going to shut it down anyway.

Unknown Speaker  46:20
That's what it sounds like. Yes, they will.

Speaker 3  46:26
If I decide to purchase, this is kind of like, more of like an asset purchase, correct?

Unknown Speaker  46:34
Yeah. I mean if they close it down,

Speaker 3  46:37
no before, before they close it down, say, if I work something out right now that will be an asset sale.

Speaker 1  46:45
Deb, well, I mean, it could be, unless you want it, you know, I prefer asset sales to where you're just going to buy the assets of the business, the goodwill in your LLC name, and then you're going to do doing business as under the old name. That way you don't have any liability. But you could still do a stock sale, which is, you just assume ownership, transfer ownership of their entity to your name. You know, you can still either way. Okay?

Speaker 3  47:16
And I'm just, I'm just considering, like, I think the part that I'm confused about, or do I need to go back to those classes, the beginning classes, when you first started, is when I purchase the account of the business right now with whatever he has sold so far. He hangs onto those correct yes.

Unknown Speaker  47:38
So he's he's playing a smart one here.

Speaker 3  47:44
Okay, yep, all right, I don't know. I still I'm um, I feel very strong and positive about turning it around, like, Yeah, but I just don't know why. If he refused 150 then now he dropped down to 80, I think that's the puzzle piece that I need to also, yeah. Would you? Yeah? Would you? Is there anything you can say to me to point me in the direction of what to look if, if something is fishy like this,

Speaker 1  48:23
yeah, I mean, I'll do what I can. It's just, you know, I would imagine he sold a ton of inventory, and the inventory was included, or he's no longer including inventory in the sale. That's what you got to find out. You got to get the exact details first, because we can speculate, you know, all night, but until you until you know for sure what he means. You know, for that 80,000 you want to find out from him, what am I going to get for that 80,000 Oh, am I getting the name I'm getting? You know, the inventory I'm getting this. And if I am getting the inventory, how much is it? Where is it, you know, can you give me an accounting of that inventory so I can see approximately, you know, how much is there, all that kind of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  49:16
Okay, all right.

Unknown Speaker  49:22
Does anybody else have any questions?

Unknown Speaker  49:28
Joe, you doing? All right?

Speaker 4  49:35
Coming in. Yeah, I'm good. Okay. I mentioned to my cousin, she has her and her husband have a mechanic shop in Illinois. And I introduced her to I invited her to join the group. So she said I talked to her, actually about an hour before we all jumped on. And so we talked about her mechanic shop and what she has going on. And you. I told her to get her financials in order, because I talked to her about it, and she goes, I don't have any of my financials. I don't know what we're making or anything. I was like, well, that's the first thing you need to know. Yeah, so, so, but I told her to join the group. I told her about you, obviously, and they're also doing, she said something like, she's purchasing some land. They started a side car selling, bit like a car selling business or whatever, car dealership, along with the mechanic shop. So I told her to come on in, and she was all about it. Then, obviously, next week's Thanksgiving. So she said, you know, she'll get her paperwork together and start joining in December. But I was like, Yeah, Shane is the guy you know. Is like, you know, he's got a mechanic shop too, and he also does real estate and like, this is, this is where you need to be. So she agreed, and she's gonna aim to join in December. Cool. Yeah, very cool. Very excited. Yeah.

Speaker 1  51:07
And we also have a dealer license and we sell cars.

Unknown Speaker  51:12
Well, there we go. We all,

Speaker 4  51:16
well, I know she's in Illinois and you're in Missouri. So I mean, I was like, Hey, your neighbor in Missouri is doing the same thing you're doing. So, so we're all in good hands here. Okay, yeah, absolutely, that'd be cool. So I'm excited about that. Yeah, it'd be cool to see her in the group when she joins

Speaker 1  51:35
nice, yeah, yeah. There's a lot of repair shops and body shops and things like that that also have a dealership, a small car dealer, because you just get an opportunity to buy cars cheaply, or people just simply abandon cars. They come in, they want a repair done, they find out how much it's going to cost, and they don't want to get it towed out, and they just leave it. And then you, you know, you get a mechanic lien on it, and they say that you have to go to court. The judge gives you the title, essentially. Then you gotta figure out what you're going to do with it. You can either or you can just have it towed and have it, you know, the tow company deals with it, but, like, there's just opportunities. And some people come in with a nice car, but it needs a lot of repairs, and they just would rather buy a new car, as opposed to putting more money into their older car, so you can do the repairs cheaply and then sell the car.

Speaker 4  52:31
So, man, that's why I need that's why I need her here. So, like, everything you just said was gold, but, um, but yeah. So she's but yeah. And I was telling her about how you take, you invest your profits into land and real estate, and it just goes on and on. So, I mean, I just, I wish she was here to hear what you just said right there, because that was pretty awesome.

Speaker 1  52:56
Well, that's good. Well, I mean, I'll keep saying stuff. Talk about stuff,

Speaker 4  53:02
there we go. We're here to listen as long as you want to talk fair trade.

Speaker 1  53:10
Okay, cool. Does anybody else have any questions? No, okay. And remember, you know, try to go through those the resource bundle, there's a lot of stuff in there. If you haven't looked at it recently, there's a lot of good stuff. So, and then I uploaded that employment contract there, if you guys wanted to look at that, so you have an example of what I'm talking about when I talk about the employment agreement. And then next week, next week, I'll go ahead and stop this, but.
