Speaker 1  00:00
Hello, everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're getting ready to start the mentorship portion of the evening. It's Thursday, October 30, 2025 and it's the night before Halloween. So let's get spooky. What you got, George, did you find anything out about your deal? Did you go see the like, get some food at that restaurant and check it out? I

Unknown Speaker  00:32
can't hear you if you're talking. George,

Speaker 2  00:36
oh, sorry, I was muted. Okay, yeah, um, my section's gonna be, honestly, a little bit long. So if anyone wants to jump in first, that's totally does

Speaker 1  00:47
anybody have any questions before George gets into the restaurant? Stuff that he's just some background, if you, if you don't know, we looked over a deal last week. Pretty large deal, big restaurant, big seafood place, and he was going to meet with the owner, and this is kind of a follow up to that.

Unknown Speaker  01:06
So what about has anybody else found anything, anything new?

Unknown Speaker  01:13
I've been reaching out to a bunch of businesses lately,

Speaker 3  01:18
and so yeah, so I've been kind of gone. I've been doing Instacart full time more than ever. But so part of, like, what I've been kind of talking about here and there, my my credit report never went back up due to my those late fees on my school lens. So the I kind of mentioned it just a little bit. But the JT Fox guy, he has an m&a program to where he says, if you go through it, which I did, if you can scout businesses, help buy it. And basically, either you can just get it paid a finder's fee, or if you want to stick around, you can work yourself into the deal. It's very flexible thing. So, but he talks a lot about doing roll ups, where you buy several businesses, combine them, and then once they hit a $4 million earnings, then you can sell it to a private equity firm for $32 million and so while I'm doing Instacart, I have like, 100 envelopes in my car of little letters I wrote up saying, like, Hey, we're look, we're looking to purchase landscaping businesses in the area. And so I I got so I work, I work the neighborhood that I work at is, like, at the beach kind of area, and it's also TPC, like, there's a the TBC is played here, also, like the golf tournament, whatever. So the one neighborhood that I go through all the time, the security guards know me, I got them to give me an entire list of all the landscapers that work in that neighborhood. And so I have a list of 70 landscapers that I have. And then also, as I go through the neighborhoods, whenever I see a landscaper working, I'll, like, Get out of my car, even if it's like, mid delivery or whatever, and just go have a conversation with them. And so, like, so I just put together the letters and envelopes just now. But before that, I was just like, cold approaching everyone I see and just giving them a card or whatever so.

Unknown Speaker  03:23
But so I have, like, right now I have like,

Speaker 3  03:30
four or five businesses that want to sell, and so they're all smaller businesses. There's two that are, like, one truck, you know, owner operated, or whatever. But then there's one business that has six trucks, there's another one that has five, another one that has three, there's two more single ones. So I got 15 or 16 trucks total. And then last Friday, I went out to personally go seek out, like a platform company, like a bigger company that would take on the bolt ons, you know, these smaller ones. And so there's a landscaping company in this part of town that I'm working at specifically, you know, they're called precision landscapers. Whatever they do, they're like, the they're like the big guys, like, they kind of do, like, the neighborhoods, you know, like, not just the houses, but they also take care of the neighborhood, you know, the medians and the side of the roads, and, like, the neighborhood landscapers. So I went to their office in person. So, like, I had to wake up early before I go do Instacart, and then go over to another part of town, blah blah. And then, so I didn't get to talk to the owner, but I did just introduce myself, and then I wrote them my first follow up email today, like just saying, Hey, I stopped in. I'm doing a mergers and acquisition project, you know, I think you'd be great, you know, blah blah, so just kind of waiting to see when they respond. So, but, and there's one more other company that might be a good platform company that I reached out to ash Friday too. But, yeah, so right now it's like, I'm just trying to rack them up in and build on it. So, but, yeah, these business owners, though, when I talk to them, like, so, like the 15 the guys that have, the one business has five trucks, the other business has six blah, blah, like, I'll go talk to them, and they're like, the most down to earth people. Like, you just think, like, before you have these conversations, you just think they're, you have no idea what happened. And you think they're just gonna, I don't know what to expect, really, but they're the most down to earth people. And it's just, like, as simple as talking to the cashier at your grocery store like they're not going to be like, over I don't know what to say, but, you know, you just, you just have this idea in your mind of who these people are, but they're just really, just down to earth people, and they're like, you know, last guy I was talking to was my wife's the boss. She does all my accounting. I just go to work, man, like you just think they're like, You have no idea what to expect then and but you also the other thing too that I learned is that you can't judge a book by cover or anything, because I was, there's 111, day I was like, one day I was like, driving neighborhood, whatever I saw. This one landscaper didn't even have a sign on his truck. He was just sitting there by himself. Like, I don't know, like some parking lot, and I was just like, you know, like, I was gonna say, I was gonna not talk to him. He doesn't have a sign on his truck, and he's, you know, probably, who knows, whatever. But he was, he ended up being like, the guy that has six trucks, you know, just like, and talk to him a little bit and then, but every, every person I've talked to, like, Hey, I'm, I'm working with a group of business owners and investors are looking to buy businesses in the area. Have you ever thought about selling or merging with another company to make it grow bigger? Like, all these people, like, already know, like, what you're talking about. So it's not you have to educate them. And like, you know, like, we can sell you for a while they barely know what the deal is, because they're like, Yeah, I heard about another company a couple years ago. They sold off. Now they're a big company of all, like, they all know what you're talking about. So it's not like, this a strange conversation. So, I mean, that's what I've been up to past few weeks and and I've been working later on Instacart. Like haven't been around as much, but I just happen to remember, I learned, I figured out that if I start later in the day, I can work till later. So I'm just helping me out a bit more, but I'm still working quite a bit, and then working on top of that even more so. So that's what I've been up to.

Speaker 1  07:43
Cool, and coincidentally, I think we did a roll up class, like two weeks ago.

Unknown Speaker  07:47
Oh, man,

Unknown Speaker  07:48
yeah. So it's recorded. It's out there.

Speaker 3  07:51
Okay, cool. I'll watch it in between orders. So I do

Unknown Speaker  08:01
anybody else have a question before we go to George?

Unknown Speaker  08:10
No, all right, shoot George.

Speaker 2  08:13
All right. So I think I was being a bit overzealous. You know, four and a half million first business, pretty big, so more process, more step by step, so we can't even have a meeting with the owner until we're pre qualified by a loan broker, and then we get approved by the landlord, and then we can meet. Right now I'm pre qualified with a loan broker at 2.5 million, and the rest would be, we have a HELOC and underwriting right now, and once that gets cleared, they can pre approve me for the rest. But even if I do get pre approved, I mean, that's kind of like all in, you know, like, that's, yeah, very little post close liquidity, even if we get, um, working capital. So if it's doable, it'll happen. But I'm not, uh, holding my I don't know. I'm not, like, expecting it, really. It's a good business, but it's just really big, so a lot of extra steps. There a lot more to learn.

Speaker 1  09:28
And, yeah, yeah. I mean, you have to, you have to get wiggle room for working capital, you know, because there's going to be some weeks where you're not making much money and you still have to make payroll. And there were, how many employees with that 30,

Unknown Speaker  09:45
in the ballpark of 30 M Yeah,

Speaker 1  09:47
that's a huge payroll. Even at minimum wage, that's a huge payroll. So you know, and there's a lot of unknowns. Very first business you're going to learn a ton. Um. Oh, and that's a big one. Yeah, that's a big one. You know, I always say try to try to hit a base hit before you swing for the fences. Because I think if I would have gone for a big one at the beginning, I would have struggled. It would have been very tough, because I made some key mistakes in my first one just learning how all the stuff works that. Because it was smaller, I was able to weather that, but a big one, if I would have, you know, if I would have just, you know, been going week to week, and, yeah, it could have all crumbled. So, yeah, be careful.

Speaker 2  10:39
Yeah, I do have another option I'm looking at that. I did make another Google Doc for So, okay, I'll message if you want to stream it, you can. I redacted everything. Now you're not going to like it at first glance, but, but there's some mitigating circumstances that I feel like if I explain, maybe I want your honest thoughts. You know, maybe I'm being too over optimistic on it, but maybe I'm not.

Unknown Speaker  11:11
Okay. Did you? Would you rather I send

Unknown Speaker  11:15
it to you in the Zoom like private message?

Unknown Speaker  11:19
Okay, gotcha.

Speaker 2  11:25
Also, Randy's a great guy. I didn't even rate shopped him. I like I'd had one conversation with him and I signed

Unknown Speaker  11:32
him on. Oh, Snodgrass,

Speaker 2  11:36
yeah, Randy. Randy, you're Yeah, yeah. He, he actually made that soft valuation on the Google doc there. Okay, okay, well, if you want, this is a restaurant.

Unknown Speaker  11:53
It's a restaurant. Okay,

Speaker 2  11:56
I've gone here growing up. It's like a local neighborhood thing. The main thing you'll see is the revenue going down starting 2022 but because they did open another location, which even the owner said probably cannibalize the sales, which is partially true, because I started going to that new location instead of the like the one that we're looking at now. So I think that had a pretty big impact, along with the fact that he went fully absentee, like we've been to the restaurant, you know, manager leaning on the glass, you know, on his phone the whole time, not really putting initiative into the restaurant. So and the only other thing that really drove it down, I guess, is a lot of restaurants did open up around it. So that's something that can't really

Unknown Speaker  12:52
be fixed. What kind of restaurant is it?

Speaker 2  12:56
Italian? Like, kind of fine dining Italian. Okay, how long

Unknown Speaker  13:02
has it been in operation?

Unknown Speaker  13:04
Um, around 13 years. 13,

Unknown Speaker  13:07
okay, yeah,

Speaker 2  13:11
and I, I've met with the owner already. Great. You know, feeling the owner loves us. My parents love the owner. I don't relate to him much, you know, I'm like, a fraction of his age, so not much for us to talk about. But my my parents and him love each other. Okay, I had a call with a broker today, about two hours long, talking about potential ways of structuring the deal, because all the numbers are up to me, like the final decision is left to me, basically, and the numbers worry me, but the broker told me that he's floated the idea of the seller guaranteeing the loan, and it's possible to maybe do that with a Small, 15% equity as a silent partner, or maybe even without equity, but a slightly higher sale price in exchange rent and guaranteeing the loan, which is something I've not seen offered at all ever. That's rare.

Unknown Speaker  14:16
Yeah, that's definitely rare.

Speaker 1  14:19
Okay, um, so, so you were saying that, that revenues were going down. I mean, obviously 2021, it was huge. So that's probably PPP supplemented, but it looks like it went up from every year from there, right?

Unknown Speaker  14:35
That, what I'm saying, the wrong. Doc, I

Unknown Speaker  14:41
don't know looks like might have sent

Unknown Speaker  14:45
them 121, 123, 2359, EBITDA.

Speaker 2  14:55
Well, EBITDA is like, like the Prophet, yeah. But it crashed from. Um, like, the revenue is, like, um, like, below the sub analysis, I feel like the actual revenue amounts.

Unknown Speaker  15:13
Oh, okay, okay,

Speaker 1  15:16
well, I mean, so general revenue may have gone down, but I mean, they're the EBITDA though, still going up, so they're cutting expenses or something, if

Unknown Speaker  15:29
general revenue is going down, yeah,

Speaker 2  15:35
I'm sure there's a lot of I put the whole profit loss statements in the next few pages. 2025 is only one, but then 2024 is like two other pages. Okay, their prime costs, like wages and food cost, is in the norm where they're really losing money is on, oh, they'll just disappear, all right. Never mind what they're losing money on is like, after Prime cost expenses, you know, legal fees and cleaning supplies. I've never seen cleaning supplies that high. I mean, I'm thinking that's just because he went absentee. The managers order whatever they want. They don't care about the cost.

Unknown Speaker  16:23
I mean, yeah, $60,000 so

Speaker 1  16:26
do they have? They must have a cleaning service that comes in. Is that what they have? I'm not sure. I bet they do. I bet they don't do a lot of cleaning in house. I bet they hired out.

Speaker 2  16:39
I don't know. I mean, that's not standard, for sure. I mean, in restaurants, employees have to clean everything normally,

Speaker 1  16:46
and 40,000 in legal and accounting fees. What's going on there?

Speaker 2  16:50
That's a lot. Oh, apparently the owner, because the owner went fully absent through 2022 and apparently he decided to stop paying taxes, and says, Yeah, and that's they didn't add it back. I don't know why they didn't add it back. I would add it back, but he just decided to stop paying taxes, and that's why those fees are there, the accounting fees. He kind of does it as a charity, because he's had that CPA for two decades. The CPA is horrible. I mean, he was waiting two months on a 2025, year to date, P and L, but he refused to switch from him because they have a lot of blood. And me and the broker even talk about it kind of, you know, silently during due diligence, it's going to be kind of hard to do it with his current CPA. So what the broker was thinking is he's just going to have his own CPA managing the due diligence, because the seller CPA is not really capable of that. The guy's very old and sick, so I mean, it's understandable, but that'd be a big hindrance,

Unknown Speaker  18:08
yeah? Hmm,

Unknown Speaker  18:17
see what

Speaker 1  18:20
the cleaning? Yeah, cleaning 62,000 this year. Wow.

Speaker 2  18:24
I mean, that's half of your rent for the whole year. Like, either they're they don't care what they order, or they're lazy and have a cleaning supply, or the manager is stealing money, like under the table, I don't know, but that's definitely not normal.

Speaker 1  18:43
But the the accounting fees are more on par with what I would expect for this year, and it doesn't look like there are any legal fees

Speaker 2  18:53
this year, no, but there probably will be, because I think they missed the deadline two weeks ago for 2024 taxes. So, yeah, they sure did, because they don't have the the tax return either. For last I think it was October 15, right? Yep, like two weeks ago. Yeah.

Speaker 1  19:17
So did you do? You put this? Yeah, you did. And the analysis so DSCR 2.4 recover the down payment in six months, which is what we would expect with a DSCR of over two

Unknown Speaker  19:38
cash on cash of almost 200% percent?

Speaker 1  19:44
Yeah, that that profit margin, though. I mean, restaurants routinely operate at 10% margins. That's just kind of that industry. So at

Speaker 2  19:57
least from what I've seen honestly at this scale. Yeah, like, I'm normally seeing around 20% at least profit margins, generally in Sims. So I maybe that's like for smaller ones, but I feel like the bigger they get, like the lower food costs they can get. They optimize the hours more. So there's like, a little bit more percentages that they can get out of profit but, I feel like it's either going to be something that I get and I can fix it up, and I'll be making a ton of money more than what I paid for it, or it's going to stabilize hopefully, and we're kind of just going to drag out the loan payment a bit, because if it doesn't blow up like we think it will, you know, we have three people that can manage restaurants. Basically, we can pay the minimum payments on the loan and acquire another stronger restaurant. Because right now, we don't really have time to wait for, like, the best deal in the world. But if we were to get this one when, you know, in a year and eight months, when another good opportunity comes up, maybe we'll have enough saved up then, from, you know, my job and the income of the restaurant to acquire another one, and then one person can go run that one and it'll kind of supplement.

Unknown Speaker  21:25
Yeah. So what's the asking price? I didn't see that

Unknown Speaker  21:30
the asking price was 1.75

Speaker 2  21:33
the broker knows that's not going to happen. He's normally when we talk he's throwing around 1.5 so I'm gonna offer like, one to 1.3 in the loi, like a ballpark range, and we'll probably close around one two or one three. Okay.

Speaker 1  21:59
I mean, even if the numbers stay consistent, you're, I mean, you're still doing pretty good, right? So what was the

Unknown Speaker  22:10
Yeah, I mean, 260, per year.

Unknown Speaker  22:19
What did Randy say?

Speaker 2  22:23
Um, Randy didn't say much on it. He kind of just gave me like that suggested price of 1.2 million. Um, my loan broker, because I run all my deals through the loan broker, and then if I really like the deal, I'll show it to Randy. Loan broker said it's going to be hard to get a bank to approve it, which is the broker was also talking to other banks today, seeing if they can pre approve the business. And that's why the idea of the seller guaranteeing the loan came up, because it's going to be kind of hard to get them to approve it, with the revenues going down, because they absolutely

Unknown Speaker  22:58
hate that. Yeah, but

Unknown Speaker  23:02
if the seller is willing to guarantee it,

Unknown Speaker  23:05
I feel like,

Speaker 2  23:08
even though it's a little bit more risky, that's kind of like you're not going to find that anywhere else. And if he's confident that the restaurant is really going down, just because he's not there, like he doesn't care about making, you know, 100 grand more a year, because he's already run restaurants his whole life. And maybe it's not the worst opportunity.

Speaker 4  23:36
Well, I mean, is that what you want? Something that's not the worst opportunity?

Speaker 2  23:45
Well, no, but again, just because of like the circumstances, we kind of need to buy something now. Okay, whether it's this or the four and a half million or even another business, we kind of need something now.

Unknown Speaker  24:00
And how many locations? Are there two locations on this?

Speaker 2  24:05
Well, yeah, there were two locations, and some rich German guy came and bought the other location, and he completely changed it. It's like a completely different restaurant, no longer the same name, different type of food. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  24:23
I mean, what do you think on it?

Speaker 1  24:24
Even the numbers still work. The like you said, the trending down is a concern. Have you looked at just the trends in that area? Like, are you familiar with just, you know, the economy in that area. I'm sure you are like, is it the location? Is it a touristy location? Is it upscale? Is it? Is it, you know, because you got to look at the neighborhood. Is it because the neighborhood's getting run down, not not as many people are coming there? Is it because people just don't have extra income to go to an upscale restaurant, like they did a couple. Years ago. Like, there has to be more to contribute to it than just owner neglect, because those are some pretty big changes downward. Yeah. I mean, have you? Have you tried to analyze and come up with an answer to that?

Speaker 2  25:18
It's kind of touching everything, like, behind the restaurant, there's, you know, high income apartments that are pretty pricey, and retirement home kind of near it, and then in front of it, like, not right in front of it, but in the general area, there's, like a high school. It's in, like, a wealthy County in Florida, and it's about a 15 minute drive from Disney, so it's not a bad area. I think mainly what caused it is that second location, because it starts going down 2022 and that's when he opened that location. And I know at least with me, that did cannibalize his business in that location, because I started going to the new one instead of this one, and maybe a bunch of other people did too, along with the fact that other types of restaurant opened up near it. There's like, it's like some Mexican restaurant that's pretty big in front of it, and there's like, ribs, not Italian food, but just other good food that is cheaper, and people might be more inclined to get a giant $15 burrito than spend 150 bucks eating a filet mignon. You know?

Unknown Speaker  26:36
Yeah. Um, yeah, yeah, that would be a concern.

Speaker 1  26:43
Do you know, by like, what month they opened that other business? Can you can you see those numbers go down about the same time? And then, if that's the case, when they, when he changed the when the investor came in and bought that business and they changed it to something else, you should have seen those numbers rebound a little bit. You should be able to track that change if, if that's really what contributed to the downward trend.

Speaker 2  27:09
I don't have a month by month breakdown. That's probably something I can talk about to the broker, because their point of sales is very easy to get numbers from. Okay, so they can probably give me a month by month breakdown of each year.

Unknown Speaker  27:28
Okay, yeah. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  27:34
I don't know this is, this is one of those that,

Speaker 1  27:39
you know, there's no perfect deals. But if, if revenue stays where it's at right now, if it even holds at this lower number, it doesn't go lower, still a good deal. If it continues to trend downward consistently like this for like two, three more years, you're going to be in trouble. So I mean, there's your big decision, like, Is it, is it really because of that other location? Is it because of something else that I'm not factoring in? Is it the overall economy? Is it that younger people don't like to go out to expensive Italian restaurants? They'd much rather have like, a, you know, California burrito and, and, you know, something like that, like, I don't know, but those are the questions that will make or break this, this deal. I generally don't buy a downward trending business. I it, because you just never know, you know, I mean, is, are people just changing their habits in that area? You know, what's I didn't see? What's their marketing budget? Do they market? Do they advertise?

Speaker 2  29:02
Yeah. Let's see, in 2025, 35,005 grand. Yeah, that's and then last year, it was around 60,

Speaker 1  29:12
35,000 marking for the year is pretty low

Unknown Speaker  29:17
on a business that's making that much money. So

Speaker 1  29:23
I mean 5% of your general revenue is pretty consistent. I don't know about restaurants, but just in general business. So what's the what are the revenue numbers for this year total? So three point 2.3, right? 3.2 3.2

Unknown Speaker  29:44
so that is,

Unknown Speaker  29:48
yeah, that's pretty low.

Speaker 2  29:52
And the main reason I'm looking at it is it's been up listed for like, almost a year, and they sold. Hold the other location, like, probably close to the start of this year, and then they changed everything, and since they've changed that location into something else, it's kind of stabilized, like with it's in the margin of error. You know, it's not like it's continued going down as much as it has before. So maybe this is where it stops dropping. You know, I

Speaker 1  30:24
wouldn't want to see that first before I made a decision. Like, if you can track that to the month and and talk to the broker and like, okay, when did, when did they this other business change? Or if you know when it changed, and look at the numbers for that month and the following months and see if they stabilize, or if they they're still going down year over year, that I would want to see that at least before I jumped into a business that's trending down like this as much as it is, I'll

Unknown Speaker  30:54
probably do that tomorrow. Then

Unknown Speaker  30:57
you can't have too many numbers. You need all of that stuff, yeah, for sure.

Speaker 4  31:12
I mean, it's a big one, though you found another big one, not quite as big, but still a pretty big one for a first time.

Unknown Speaker  31:19
I mean, it's like half the size, you know,

Speaker 2  31:23
yeah, you know, it's like reasonable. It's not like too crazy. Think, honestly, I'll probably end up going for it if I do see the like from that month to month, it did change when they changed the location, and if he does guarantee the loan, I think I'll be confident enough to go forward with it, because who, what owner is going to do that? You know?

Speaker 1  31:58
Yeah, I mean, that's an owner that tells you that the owner believes in the business for sure. Yeah, so that would be the advertising budget I would expect. So, and that looks like, Oh, that's a huge expense added on to, you know, already a downward trending business. But if you're, if you're bringing your revenues back up by paying that might be worth it. So I definitely think they need to advertise more, for sure. Yeah.

Speaker 2  32:42
I mean, I've never seen an advertisement for that restaurant in my whole life. So, yeah, I just know it, because I grew up in the area, but I don't know what they're spending the advertising on, because I've never seen anything.

Speaker 1  32:55
Yeah, and maybe it's one of those things where you know, when you go to that restaurant, what do you see? Do you see older people. Or do you see any you know? How many young people do you see, young families, things like that, people coming through to Disney. That's your bread and butter right there. That's what you want to see. But if it's just people that have, you know, the neighborhood, people who have been going there forever, that are aging and passing away, and the next generation is not coming in. You can overcome that by advertising?

Speaker 2  33:26
Well, I do see a good mix of I see like younger families. I see kids from the high school nearby coming to take the girl on a date. I see birthday parties. There's really not that many old people. And the old people are kind of always at the bar, hanging around the bar and drinking away. That's another thing. I like that restaurant has like a giant room of, like, wines and whiskeys, like very I don't know I like that a lot.

Speaker 1  34:00
Yeah, at the very least, George, I would want to see, I would want to see those numbers and try to track where, if it's turning in the other direction, it's it's risky, but like I said, if, if you believe that it's gonna that it's stabilizing, that's one thing. But you know, don't put all your your eggs into the basket of you can come and turn it around, and in a year, you have a business that's doing double because you're putting more effort into it than the old owner was, because it doesn't always work that way. So just be careful.

Speaker 2  34:51
You think the range of like one to 1.3 is reasonable to put on the LOI?

Speaker 1  34:57
I do. Yeah, I do as. Actually, if Randy gave you the 1.2

Speaker 4  35:03
I'd say that's, that's where you want to be.

Unknown Speaker  35:06
He's good at what he does.

Speaker 2  35:11
Yeah, very nice guy. I mean, super. I mean, I talked to him about, like, section 318, elections on doing stock sales versus an asset sale. Great guy. I mean, super easy to talk to. Unlike other CPAs I've talked to at least, yeah, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  35:32
All right, thank you for your input. Shane,

Unknown Speaker  35:34
yeah, no problem. I look forward to hearing how it goes.

Speaker 3  35:38
I'll add in one more thing, if that's okay. Hey, George, so there's a money lender called ARF that will they specialize in lending money to restaurant owners. That might be something you're interested in, called arf. And what they'll do is they'll, typically, they won't give you money to buy the business, but they'll give you working capital or payroll, you know, money for that. And typically they'll give you, I think it was 20% of the revenue. I think it is, so at least you get one more source of money that way.

Unknown Speaker  36:16
Awesome. It's a ARF, financial, right?

Speaker 3  36:18
Arf, yeah. And then also, like, they do have one more. I mean, they have so many other flexible reasons to give you money. They'll even, if you became an owner of a business, they'll give you money to buy another business, but they won't give you money to buy your first one. They'll also give you money to if you, I mean, if you are a partner, I don't know if you do that, but like, they'll give you money to buy out a partner if that's what you want to do as well. So yeah, that's them right there. And it's typically, like, it's typically 0% interest type loans too. So I mean, but yeah, I stumbled upon them. They're great people.

Unknown Speaker  36:58
From what I've seen. Y'all definitely check them out.

Speaker 3  37:01
Cool, yeah, it's good option for some cash. So, I mean, once you get that business, you can use them for working capital and things like that. Yeah, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  37:19
Power of community, right? Love it. Does

Speaker 4  37:27
anybody else have any questions? What you got

Speaker 1  37:37
is everyone still looking you active? Did you after last week, did you set up your searches to send you alerts if anything new comes up in your area and your your Buy Box? Did everybody do that? No, if you didn't, you know where the video is that shows you how to do it.

Unknown Speaker  37:58
Last week's video.

Unknown Speaker  38:02
Did I actually upload that? No, I think about it. Are

Speaker 5  38:08
you talking about in business by cell, yeah, saved,

Unknown Speaker  38:13
yeah, yeah.

Speaker 6  38:15
Hi, Shane, I have this on business that I would love for you to look at. Okay, do let's be set.

Unknown Speaker  38:30
Back to monkey. Did you put it in chat? Yeah, okay. Got here.

Unknown Speaker  38:53
40 year old, landscape

Speaker 1  38:56
and design, okay, Savage, 1987 cash flow.

Unknown Speaker  39:01
170 asking price. 365, okay.

Speaker 1  39:11
Word of mouth and referrals. Three long term employees with W twos, trucks and other assets at almost 120 so we'll provide 30 days of training for free.

Speaker 6  39:25
I know the um, employees is, like, a kind of a bad sign, but I was thinking like, maybe, like, talking to the owner, I would see if we can, like, going through the process, hire more people as we're going through the process, just to make sure that, like, when I get on, we have more employees. I think like that, that'd be like a really good deal, good idea for, like, when I run into good businesses, but they have, like, little to no employees. Make that deal with the owner to hire more employees before buying a business.

Speaker 1  39:58
I. Yeah, I mean, you know, but that's going to cut down on your your cash flow, right? That's the trade off there. So if you hire, you hire another one, like one employee for two employees at 50,000 a piece, then you're only making 69,000 you know? I mean, that that's why, probably he only has three with especially with landscaping so and just about any business that's service related, you can scale in a couple different ways. You can scale by adding better equipment and keeping the same amount of employees. So your investment is in the more efficient, larger equipment that can do more at one time, or you hire people that use to use your existing equipment. Ideally, you go equipment first, people second.

Unknown Speaker  40:48
So I don't know where he's at. Maybe he's, you know, he's got 120,000

Speaker 1  40:52
in in equipment. So I don't know. I don't know, but yeah, I mean, three employees is not very much. Three employees means that if you lose one and the other one becomes sick, you're on a mower. You know, you're out there with a shovel yourself trying to figure

Speaker 6  41:15
this out. I do not know how to cut grass, so see, and

Speaker 1  41:19
that's, that's why I say, you know, the minimum being five, because if you do lose one, like during the acquisition, they just don't want to change. They that's just going to go somewhere else, which kind of happens sometimes you're you still have four employees that are experiencing can handle it, and one of them gets sick. You still have three employees, but like, when you're down to three, it's scary.

Unknown Speaker  41:43
I don't know, other than that, it's, it looks great,

Speaker 1  41:49
you know, I would, I would be asking, because this has been around for 38 years, right? So my question would be, how old are those long term employees? Are they also ready for retirement. You know, what's their plan? Do they even know the business is being you know, he wants to sell the business?

Unknown Speaker  42:08
Yeah, you could buy this and end up with just $120,000

Speaker 1  42:14
in equipment and no way to use it.

Speaker 6  42:19
Yeah, I'm gonna, I'm gonna ask the seller about that. I was just trying to think of like a solution to bring on more employees. Have you,

Speaker 1  42:30
have you talked to anybody? Have you reached out? Got the financials or anything?

Speaker 6  42:34
Yeah, I did reach out. I'm still waiting for them to come back to me.

Speaker 1  42:37
Okay? I mean, wouldn't hurt to ask the broker say, Hey, here's my concern. There's only three employees. I'm not going to be mowing. I'm an investor. I'm not an operator of a landscaping business. You know, that's my concern. What do you think? You know the owner, you know you've looked at this business, you know, you put all this stuff together. What do you think? And if he says, Well, yeah, I mean, there's, it's a possibility that you're going to have to do this, this and this, and, you know, you got to find out how many hours the owner currently spends working on the business. Is the owner spending 2030, hours, you know, running whatever kind of equipment, a skid steer or something like that. Like, is he the one that's doing that? Then who's going to replace that skill? Yeah, not me. Yeah. See, so you would have to hire someone, and then when you hire someone, there goes your cash flow.

Unknown Speaker  43:39
I mean, I don't mind letting go. Probably, like, I

Speaker 6  43:43
don't know, I have to. I'll have to see around the numbers, because that is scary. Yeah.

Speaker 1  43:47
I mean, you could probably weather by, like, hiring one extra employee.

Speaker 6  43:53
Yeah, I was gonna say, like, I don't mind letting go couple 1000 from long as, like, I'm in 100,000 like, that's enough for me to quit my job. So I'm fine with that.

Unknown Speaker  44:04
Well, but it's about the debt service, right? Yeah, I was just

Speaker 6  44:07
gonna say that we still have to worry about paying off the loan. Yeah, yeah. Senses of well, like if a machine breaks or something,

Speaker 1  44:17
because, you know, so let's, let's see what your minimum would be right here. So we're talking about makes 365,000 right? So you need it needs to cash flow at least 121,000 so that that leaves you, you know what? 48,000 you could pay someone and an additional employee to come in and help anything past that, you'd be getting into dangerous territory where you know you're you're not really getting ahead, you're just kind of treading water.

Unknown Speaker  44:53
Or maybe I could see it like a family member can do it for free.

Unknown Speaker  44:58
Mm. Maybe, maybe

Speaker 6  45:02
a family member, like, come on with me for not that much. Probably, like, 20,000 I'll be like, I'll pay you.

Unknown Speaker  45:09
It's hard to get anyone to do anything for 20,000

Speaker 1  45:17
Yeah. I mean, that's pretty low, and you still have to give people minimum wage,

Unknown Speaker  45:22
even if they're family,

Speaker 6  45:23
right, right? Honestly, I've been telling, like, just stay, hold hold it down for me for like, a year. Let me get some ads running, then I'll pay you what I owe you, you know, see, yeah,

Speaker 1  45:34
and then that'll also, just like, the last business that we looked at with George, you know, if they're not advertising, if they're not, you know, actively growing the business. You know, maybe a business has been around for this long. Probably everybody knows them. They don't do a lot of ads. You have to look at those numbers too. But I would want to know the age of those employees, yeah, how long they've been there. Those would be my first two questions. I hope they know old,

Unknown Speaker  46:05
yeah, thanks, Shane, no problem.

Speaker 5  46:18
Is it common with landscaping business. So I'm also looking at a pressure washing where it's a low amount of people, like this one, also it's for people, as opposed to, like an auto shop, there's usually a manager. These ones tend to not have a manager, so maybe the seven employee rule, yeah.

Speaker 1  46:38
Well, the businesses that go out to homes, you usually see less employees, right? So it's more based on how many trucks they have. So they might have like, two crews, two trucks and six employees. You got three going in this truck and three going in this truck. But, but still, you know, somebody has to go out there, and somebody has to handle that stuff. And, you know, you you almost have more managers in landscaping and construction and roofing, because there's one person in each of those trucks that's responsible for those jobs, and the owner will just kind of go around, you know, and just check or handle phone calls. I mean, that's, that's your ideal situation. That's what you want. You want capable, you know. You might even call them a site manager or a crew chief or whatever. But landscaping, especially so, you'll have, you might have a crew of three, or two or three that goes out in a truck, in a trailer. You've got one guy that that, you know, oversees everything, does a lot of the maintenance on the mowers, because they break down all the time, and he handles the big mower. And then you've got someone else that does the trimming and the blowing and that kind of stuff. But, yeah, they're just, they're smaller because they can't, you know, they have supplemented the income by buying better equipment, like I was saying earlier, like that's just what you do first. You buy bigger, better equipment that's faster. I mean, mowers and stuff. Nowadays they mow at 1011, miles per hour. So you can put one guy on that mower. You can have an old mower from 10 years ago go half the speed, and it doesn't look very good. You put that same guy on a new mower and do two three times the yards in a day. You just make more money like that. So you see less people, less people and better equipment. What you generally don't see is more people and worse equipment. And if you do see that, that's not good either. You know, because in these these types of businesses. You don't want a mower. You don't want mowers that are five years old or more. You want newer stuff. Same thing with skid steers, any of the big equipment that that you're going to see people use, aerators, backos, whatever, like you want newer stuff, because otherwise it's a money pit that breaks down constantly, and that's what you're going to get as an owner of a business with aging equipment is calls the John Deere broke down again. We got to do this. We can't do these yards. We got to we got to go get a loaner, and we're stuck here, and it's a nightmare. So you don't want old equipment. So So So, to answer your question, I probably talked around it, it's almost more important to have better equipment than it is more equipped, more employees in situations like that, where it's crews going out to homeowners, locations and yeah, but still Three, I want to, I still want to see five.

Unknown Speaker  49:43
I still want to see five at a minimum.

Speaker 1  49:46
I mean, that's two crews. If you have five people, that's two crews at least. So I.

Unknown Speaker  50:05
Here, anybody else

Speaker 5  50:09
I do another, just a general question about, like, packing and shipping stores, because I'm seeing some of those, like one for, I mean, it's 250,000 so it's lower than what you would, you know lower because 350 is kind of where you want it, right for the SBA well, but you

Speaker 1  50:26
can still get funded at 250 so sometimes you have to bring a larger down payment. It depends on the bank, yeah?

Speaker 5  50:32
Those also that type of business has just less employees, like

Speaker 1  50:41
this one, yeah, less employees and more risk because they fail at pretty high numbers. Yeah, so I was looking at the numbers today, some more recent numbers from department of labor and manufacturing and trucking jobs trucking companies are extremely high failure rates right now. I don't know. I don't know what's going on. I don't know if it's Amazon. It's hurting, you know those, those like warehouse, kind of businesses, or are just or what's going on? I'm not sure. But yeah, warehouse, shipping and trucking, the numbers have skyrocketed on failure rates. So that would make me a little antsy getting in there, because these are businesses that have been around for years, and they're failing and they've got rates. I think it was like 40% are failing in the first year, 60% within five years, and 80% within 10 so something is going on in that industry with warehouse and shipping. Not sure. I would assume it's Amazon, because about 10 years Amazon's taken over the world. They do their own thing. They do their own vans, their own shipping. That's that's what I assume it is.

Speaker 5  52:01
Yeah, yeah. Because at first I was like, Well, when I return stuff from Amazon, I go to UPS, but in my mind, I'm wondering if that's where they get their businesses. People just returning stuff. You know, everybody returning stuff that they buy online. But I don't know, maybe

Speaker 1  52:18
I should do all my returns at Kohl's, right? I would drop them off at Kohl's, and then Kohl stopped doing it, and now and then it went to the UPS store, and UPS Store stopped doing it. And now it's staples. And the only reason I ever go into staples for anything is to return Amazon so I get it's working. It's getting me in there. I'm not buying anything, but I'm walking through the doors, I'm seeing all their promotional stuff, which is,

Unknown Speaker  52:41
I don't know, it's

Speaker 7  52:44
what is the returns like? Is there something going on?

Speaker 1  52:50
Well, I mean, you know, you buy something, you buy some clothes, they don't fit, or you buy something it's just not what you thought it was, or it doesn't work. You know, Amazon's really good about allowing you to return stuff, but you have to send it back somehow. And these, these other companies will contract with Amazon to in order to get traffic in their store.

Speaker 7  53:14
Okay, I went to, okay, so tick tock is apparently becoming like a big runner up, like they're trying to match Amazon right now with their tick tock shop stuff like that. What do you think about I mean, I have started business, and it's pretty tough. So when you were talking saying something about the trucking business, I mean, the same thing goes for the medical transportation business, which I'm into right now. Like, you know, the big guys are up there grabbing everything, and we're kind of like down here as the third party. I'm looking into businesses, but what I'm doing right now is not sustaining me. So I'm quickly looking into like, changing gear, so that way I can like, you know, so I went to a meeting yesterday where someone was talking about the fourth quarter of the year with the going on. Does it ever make sense to pay somebody big house, these people come on tick tock, and they're charging you a lot like, I mean, I believe you have experience. This is not related to anything with this person, this line, but I believe you have experience in this area, if somebody is really doing. Well, in something selling courses, is that the key? Or do you think this is their way of making money? Because this person is charging,

Speaker 1  55:12
if you see, I mean, I get it, you know, you you want to make extra income, but if you see somebody that is that is posting 5678, times a day. They have they're doing multiple lives a day, or every single day, or whatever. And what you here's what you don't see usually, on the on these lives and on their posts, you don't see pictures of the businesses. You don't see real, actually, examples of things that they've bought and done. And I think people like that their business is selling courses. It's not actually what they say they're doing,

Unknown Speaker  55:46
and that's why, like, 90%

Speaker 1  55:50
of the people out there that are selling those expensive courses are not actually doing it. They're selling the courses. And that's not to say their information is bad, not that doesn't mean it's bad at all, but like, I will never and never, have never will pay 1000s of dollars for a course. I'm just not going to do it. You don't, you don't have to. There's, there's two, even if you just pay $20 a month for chat GPT, for, you know, the a little bit more juice for chat GBT, you can pretty much learn damn near everything that they can teach you, if you just put a little effort into it, you don't need to be spoon fed information from people that don't really have experience in it. They're just parroting what someone else has done. Because until you actually get in and you make some mistakes and you screw this up, and then you know what not to do. And I mean, that's what they should be paying people for, for someone that's been down that road and actually done it and knows what not to do in the future. And yeah, I, I no patience. I would not, I would not pay for that stuff, no way. And now that, since we're not, I can't say the names when I'm on Tiktok, because I get in trouble. But Mike the investor, Tony Cruz, or no, it's not Tony Cruz. Tom Cruise, Kareem section, a Kareem,

Unknown Speaker  57:13
oh, I can't remember

Speaker 1  57:16
what's his name that talks about all of Mac enterprises, all these people that are saying, Oh, we're going to do this. We're going to do that. And when it comes right down to it, they want, they want five grand to do this stuff, and they're not going to give you any information until they give them that stuff. So no, no, don't waste your money on those people, patients. You can get that information from so many different, different sources.

Speaker 7  57:44
Oh yeah, that's my plan right now, because, like, I went to the meeting yesterday, and after an hour of talking, I felt like, Okay, I already extracted, you know, and somebody getting desperate to say, Hey, if you book my consultation call, call, and if you don't follow through it, then curse you if you, if you waste an hour of my time or whatever, I'm like, more what you know, but I'm looking at like, I mean, this is just like my general Thinking, like something I could spin around that can support me while I'm on my journey, and I'm looking at the Amazon store like, is, Amazon has gotten to point where is over saturated already, but Tiktok is, is, I think That's where the return rates on Amazon is really making a difference. Where tick tock you you see an actual video of what the person tells you they're using

Unknown Speaker  58:51
compared to uploaded.

Speaker 1  58:55
Yeah, you can be an affiliate on tick tock, but you can also be an affiliate on Amazon too. So you can do reviews on there, and you can do you can go on YouTube and have reviews and affiliate links where people will they'll search for whatever product, look at the review, and then they'll use your link to go to Amazon and buy it, and you get a piece of that. That's the same thing that Tiktok is doing, right when I see a product on Tiktok that I like and I want to buy, I just take the name of the product and I Google it, and I'll buy it from Amazon for 20% less than what they're charging on Tiktok, because that's what they're doing. They're just finding, they're finding a product somewhere. They're increasing the price. And people, you know, in that spur of the moment, they make a purchase because it's something cool. It's like, whatever. It's house shoes that look like Panther claws or something, and they're like, I saw that the other day. I'm like, well, that's cool, but I'm not gonna, I'm gonna buy it from tick tock, but that's how they make money, and there's nothing wrong with that. But just, I don't know, like, so, so tick tock. Is they've really changed a lot of stuff recently. Tiktok is trying to be a search engine and is trying to compete with Amazon. You're 100% right there, like they've changed the algorithm on what what videos get views. They want more photos and product related things. They want more targeted discussions, explaining things to people, because they say that the younger generations are using Tiktok like the older generations use Google. So they're definitely trying to to get into that and to do marketing and stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:33
So, yeah, I,

Speaker 1  1:00:38
I don't know. I mean, and the thing with tick tock affiliate, like, if you want to, you can't sell products on tick tock until you have so many followers, and then once you get so many followers, you can, and it's very little risk, but you have to work really hard to get people to buy your products. And you're getting 15 cents a product, you know? I mean, it's a numbers game. You have to really do it like that becomes a job. That's not something that you could just set and forget, like you have to consistently go back and go back and

Speaker 7  1:01:11
so, yeah, so Shane, what he was telling us was, you not being the affiliate, like you get the products and you pay people who have large followers, so you touch people to be your affiliates, to market your product or to sell your products. So you kind of like the business owner, eventually, with some level of risk and some It depends. If it's the print on demand, the risk is pretty low, but if it's products, like acquiring the products, you know, then there's some level of risk of like purchasing and then sourcing and stuff like that. Yeah. So like, you are

Speaker 1  1:02:04
not like, you don't have to buy it ahead of time. You have no risk involved at all. The only risk is your time. So, but you have to work your way to where Tiktok will let you do that. Like, I'm sure that at this point I could do that. But who has time for that? Time am I going to sell Panther Paul house shoes on Tiktok, right? It's just not my thing. I'm not saying that's not probably a lucrative thing that is that people can do, but, like, it's just not something I really want to be involved in, but, but you have to. You have to work towards it. You need 1000s of followers. You need the software to make catchy videos. You need cap cut. You need all that stuff. You need to have stuff. You need to have YouTube and Instagram and all that stuff juiced and working together to sell that product. Otherwise you're it's not going to be worth it because it's volume when it comes to products like that, because your margins are so slim, if you're not selling 1000s of those products, you're not really making any good money. But, I mean, you still can, but it's going to take substantial effort to make good money, like what I was talking about with the racks, for those storage tubs, things like that. I don't care if you find, if you find a really good slogan or something, and where you can buy T shirts and put that slogan on it, you can buy T shirts for little or nothing and market that at a at a markup that's like five to 10 times what you paid for it. That's where you can make money with less volume. But it's either or you either have high margins and low volume, or low margins and high volume, there's really no in between. Everything in between, you just get gobbled up. It's a good question, though. And Tiktok is pushing a lot of products these days. Like every other video is a product.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:07
It's a little exhausting.

Speaker 7  1:04:13
I mean, it is exhausting, but there are people who just show up with no intention of purchasing something and, but you are being smart. You said, You look things up, and then you switch over to Amazon. Like, most people don't have time, so do all of that even, like, okay, yeah, it's really easy.

Speaker 1  1:04:34
You have your, you know, Apple Pay or whatever, and you find a product, and you hit the button and it comes to your, you know, Tiktok makes it very easy, and some people will pay more just for that convenience, you know, that pure impulse, but, but, yeah, no, I'm gonna look for stuff on my own first. That's good for instance, like so this, this hoodie right here. See you see this hoodie? This hoodie was given to me at a blockchain event. You. My wife wears it all the time, right? I went and looked at the the brand for this hoodie. It's like a, I don't know, it's ordinary. Is an ordinary clothing. I went looked it up. This hoodie cost $250 that this, this company gave to me as a promotional thing. And I'm thinking, who in the right mind pays $250 for a freaking hoodie. And I was gonna buy one for my wife, because she wears this one all the time. Hell no, I'm not buying my wife a $250 hoodie. No way. It's just, you know. But had I not looked at it, maybe it just came across a feed on Tiktok and I bought it, you know. But like that kind of stuff, it doesn't matter how well you're doing, you still have to be sensible with money. Because, you know, how many stories do you know about people that have quite a bit of money that ended up broke, lottery winners, athletes, people that just don't know how to handle it? It's so easy to run through and just completely ruin all the hard work you do to get where you want to go by buying $250 hoodies. Yeah. Yeah. So no, no Panther paw house shoes and $250 hoodies for my family. We're not doing it.

Speaker 7  1:06:32
So the next loan that I looked at a while ago, they did say sale was pending. But this evening, while we were having this meeting, I was just looking at the baseball set, and it came back up. So I don't know, it looked like the sale did not fall through. So I just emailed them this evening, hopefully, oh, he's back. But I see one or two things here and there that I posted in the community, just because some things stand out to be like, there was a particular business it was in the healthcare field. It's kind of four hours away from Chicagoland area. I don't know why Illinois is like that. It's so long sometimes it's four hours away, but it's like an absentee thing, but just being four hours away, I would rather fly there. I don't want to drive like

Unknown Speaker  1:07:33
it's just would be too far for me.

Speaker 7  1:07:35
It's four years old. It was 21 so that looked fishy, a little bit Correct, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:07:42
I mean, as far as the the system, it's too far away and too young,

Speaker 7  1:07:46
too young. And the person was saying, retiring, I'm like, retiring after four years. Okay, yeah. So the next one is, is back on the market, like, we'll see. I'll reach out tomorrow. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:08:10
okay, well, I think we pretty much got through everything. Like I said, if anybody has any ideas or things you want me to expand upon, maybe things that, you know, questions you had on past videos that maybe you did you weren't there live to be able to answer, you know, ask the questions. You know, reach out to me, because I'm always looking for topics to try. I want to make sure you guys have everything you need, you know, all the tools and all the information you need to be able to do this stuff, so just let me know. DM me, and I'll do my best. I'm still working on a guest speaker, trying to find a female entrepreneur. I found one. She's not willing to come on here. She's kind of low key, so I'm working on her, and I'm going to try to find somebody else if she doesn't work out. But I'd like to get that perspective too, because we've been asked for that. So until then, yeah, I.
