Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. It's Thursday, August 14. This is the mentorship Q and A. We started off with a couple of questions. I think Katrina, you had a question that you you were asking about landscaping business. Did you have specific question about the the business model, or what's going on,

Speaker 2  00:25
yeah, so, um, by the way, I'm Katrina, everybody, and, um, I've been here probably, what, three weeks now, um, and I've been looking at some businesses on bids by sale, and I really like the reoccurring income model, at least for my first purchase. I've sold a business before, and I can tell you that story later if you want, but this will be my first time purchasing an existing business. And so I'm looking at the landscaping again, because I like the fact that the clients are reoccurring. It's a high demand business. And I just wanted to know what you guys think about it. Are there any things to look out for when looking into these businesses? I guess the one that I'm currently looking at does not have any real estate. I think the wife runs the business out of their home. It's a smaller company and but they do have the contractors that go out and do the cuts and they store the equipment in a storage unit. So it's a smaller business, okay? And, yeah, that's not it, sorry, yeah.

Speaker 1  01:46
Okay, so, um, what state did you find that? Would you find it on bicycle?

Speaker 2  01:51
Yeah, it was in Florida, okay?

Speaker 1  01:54
So definitely like landscaping in in Florida, because year round, yeah, absolutely. I have a landscaping business, and you have to scramble to find things to do. We also have the leaves, though, leaves are one of the biggest money maker, times in the whole season, because nobody wants to deal with leaves, and if you have the right equipment, you charge a premium to get rid of their leaves, to pick up leaves. Okay, good idea, yeah. What city was it in?

Unknown Speaker  02:27
This was in Broward.

Speaker 2  02:36
Oh, and that's that, yeah, that's a county, sorry, okay, no problem. Yeah, fire County, yeah. And then I think if you put long in the keywords, it should come up.

Unknown Speaker  02:48
Oh, no, not there go to More, more filters.

Speaker 1  02:52
Oh, gotcha in the keywords, yeah,

Speaker 2  02:55
right there at the top. I think they moved it to the top, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  02:58
And then it did move. It was at the bottom, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:01
it was at the bottom right.

Unknown Speaker  03:15
Not showing that's the right County, right?

Unknown Speaker  03:21
Yeah, that's all right, county.

Unknown Speaker  03:25
Oh, actually, when you go to Broward, I wonder if we put

Speaker 2  03:30
it metro area. Let me see if I can find it on my computer. Just a second. Do?

Unknown Speaker  03:43
Got going on

Unknown Speaker  03:56
mower sales, I

Speaker 1  04:00
don't know. We could just find one. I'll just find one. Yeah, we can just find one. Yeah, that's fine. So some of your concerns on on this should be, it's

Speaker 2  04:08
showing up on mine for some reason, and not yours. That's weird.

Speaker 1  04:11
Um, maybe I got, I might have additional filters. Okay, leftover.

Unknown Speaker  04:16
No, it's the word lawn in it, yeah.

Speaker 2  04:22
Oh, interesting, yeah, put lawn clear. That is very weird. That's weird, yeah, oh, take off the industry,

Unknown Speaker  04:40
your industry? Oh, yeah, I still had it from last one,

Unknown Speaker  04:43
okay. And then type in lawn

Unknown Speaker  04:47
there, still there, okay.

Speaker 2  04:52
And then type in Broward County, because, oh, there, that one, right? There is a good one,

Unknown Speaker  04:57
I think. Scroll down. Scroll down. Right there.

Unknown Speaker  05:01
299 Okay, so this is going 132 alright.

Unknown Speaker  05:07
So you already know that's good. It's not bad.

Speaker 1  05:13
Established in 2006 owner operator, so that's what you're going to find with most landscaping businesses, yeah, yeah, unless they get bigger than this 19 years, wow.

Unknown Speaker  05:33
130 Okay,

Speaker 2  05:42
and most of the the ones that I've spoken to, they do because they have minimal a lot of times they don't have websites, they don't have any advertising. So there's a lot of opportunity there to come in and put those things in place to grow the business,

Unknown Speaker  06:00
at least that's what I think,

Speaker 1  06:05
ready to retire. Yeah. I mean, this, this looks good. So, so when you it's been around for a long time, but it's you got to think if, if you're not going to be there day to day running that business, and pretty much cut that cash flow in half, because you're going to have to, you're going to have to hire someone to do that. If you don't want to be there, that's fine. But if you do want to be there, it's a different story. And what, what you're looking at for landscaping, construction, any it's all about the equipment. So the FF and E down here is, is 120 so it's in, if it's included, which is awesome. You get truck with 28,000 miles, a 2008 bucket truck. Then you get zero turn mowers, trimmers, blowers, trailers, irrigation tools. Okay, so you would have to have someone that knows about the equipment look it over, because it's very expensive. You know those, those commercial mowers, are $10,000 a piece on the low end. So you know that where they maintain properly? How much warranty do they have? How many are there? Do they have backups, like, because someone has to maintain that equipment in order for you to keep making money, because that's like your your two biggest headaches, and and lawn care is one employees and two equipment. It's hard to find people that are willing to, you know, brave the heat, and it's hard work. And then also to try to find someone that's responsible enough in that line of work to run a crew is also very difficult. You have to pay them pretty well, but it's not, I'm not saying it's not doable, you know, I'm doing it, but it's tough. It's it's a struggle at times. Usually it's like so when I get a call from that particular manager, I cringe, because I know he never calls unless something broke and something bad happened. So those calls, they come in, like, okay, they hit a rock, it messed up the mower, or they hit a rock with a with a tremor and knocked out a big bay window. Like, those are. Those are the kind of things that that come up. But it's easy to grow these businesses once you as long as you're doing a decent job, once you have that client, they tend to stay. You know, they might move or they might pass away. That happens. But in general, you have that client for as long as you have the business, there's a lot of opportunities to raise prices, because if someone got that contract three years ago, you know, it's probably still the same price. And we all know that when you go to the grocery store today, it's a lot more expensive than it was three years ago. So yeah, I mean, I definitely love the model, and you don't even have to worry about additional equipment for snow removal and leaves and all that stuff, because it's

Speaker 2  09:09
Florida, exactly. Okay, that's good to know. And then you mentioned the rock hitting the bay window. Do you normally, would you fix that out of pocket, typically. Or do you claim that on your insurance?

Speaker 1  09:23
Yeah, because I always just pay it out of pocket, because if you turn that into your insurance, it goes up so much

Speaker 2  09:33
from the small claims. Okay, that's not what you save the insurance for the big

Speaker 1  09:36
stuff and good employees. It's not going to happen very often, because there's a way that they use the equipment that, even on tremors, that it'll throw it away from the house, and they might just need additional training, but it will happen. And you know, you have to have, you have to carry pretty heavy insurance to keep them safe, too, especially if they're going to do anything with limb removal. You know. Getting in trees, using chainsaws, that kind of stuff. It's kind of, you know, but we don't do that.

Unknown Speaker  10:06
Okay. Oh, that, yeah, they do tree trimming. So they probably,

Speaker 2  10:10
oh, they do, okay. Thank you very helpful. Yeah, no problem. And I actually saw it, not for me. I decided not to look into this business any further. But there's this coaching business on here, on biz by sales. It's a online business as well. If you go back to the search and then change the city to Florida, just put the state instead, and then in the filter, put coach, I think, or coaching, it should come up. They had a pretty good like profit and loss statement, but I decided not to look into it any further. There's another website that shows Florida businesses, I think it's called biz MLS, and it'll show you their profit and loss for like, the last three years, whatever they put in the business MLS in Florida. Let me see if we can find it. Let me see if I can find it. Hold on, I say Coach Shane, but yeah, you looking at Flippa today. Reminded me of that one. It's an online business,

Unknown Speaker  11:43
Palm Beach.

Speaker 2  11:44
Is it Palm Beach? No, not Palm Beach, no, not. It's actually not Palm Beach. I don't see it. Okay. Put coaching certification. It might be that one.

Unknown Speaker  12:29
Okay, came up online.

Speaker 1  12:32
Can you put the link in the chat? Oh, yeah, I can do that.

Speaker 2  12:45
Oh, the chat. Oh, my God, I put it in the I tried to put it in the group. Okay, there we go.

Speaker 1  13:06
That's definitely a good multiple, yeah,

Speaker 2  13:11
it seems really cool, but yeah, it kind of scared me a little bit when looking at let me see if I can find the other listing i but it scared me a little bit, because on one of the years

Unknown Speaker  13:28
her revenue declined,

Speaker 2  13:31
or their revenue I sent her because of the picture that their revenue declined,

Unknown Speaker  13:37
did it come back? I think it

Speaker 2  13:40
was for the last year. So I'm not, I'm not sure, yeah, see if I can find it again.

Speaker 1  13:52
17 employees, and it's home based, huh?

Unknown Speaker  13:56
Yeah, I wonder, is it that should

Speaker 2  14:01
be that one? Sometimes I use this website, I put the link in the chat. Sometimes I use that website, and then when you click on See more details you can find it'll have, like the profit and loss already listed in in there for you to see. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  14:25
you have to click on See more details at the top. Yeah, right there.

Speaker 2  14:38
Yeah, there we go. And then I noticed they didn't have an owner salary listed either for the for three years. But I know sometimes that might be because,

Unknown Speaker  14:52
yeah, they just might not.

Speaker 2  14:57
Oh yeah, that's right. And it seemed they they didn't have to. 2024 up here as well.

Speaker 1  15:02
Well, they may not have filed it yet, so that's where the year to date statement will come in. You want to yearly, you know, for this year, so you get the most records and they and, you know, who knows when they listed it? So you would ask for the 2024 but yeah, it's very I still haven't officially filed my personal taxes for last year. I've got an extension because I'm waiting, I have to wait for some K ones. So I just, I'm in a holding pattern until they send me those. So, yeah, I mean, I definitely like this, because it's home based. You don't have to be there the, you know, the multiple, you're not going to get much better than that. That's, you know, you make in, I don't know if that's, was that SDE, or is that? Yeah, that's SDE too that, you know, sometimes they'll say cash flow or net profit, and they actually mean some with through some fancy accounting, but that's not EBITDA. That's actually what the owner takes home. So you pay that back in two years. It's not bad.

Speaker 2  16:12
So even though this might, I would want to see if it's not for sure. Okay, okay, if it's not a recurring model, would it still be interesting, or if

Speaker 1  16:24
it doesn't have recurring revenue, and it's like, say, yeah, um, yeah. I mean, if they've been, if, if they've been doing it this long with just using organic sales and, you know, maybe subcontractors or something like that, yeah, right, okay, let's see what it says. Establish market presence, network and resources. Are there email list of 30,000 potential clients, website? CRM, yeah. I mean, can't hard to look into it. Okay? And then, if anybody you would want to know is like, what happened in 2022 Yeah, you know why? You know sometimes you got to kind of discount 2021 because that's true. All the PPP money and all the covid stuff, we were still everything was still very strange. But by 2022 we were coming out of it. But 23 was super strong, so she did great, yeah. I mean, even on the rough year, she still 200 it still fits almost the model. So, okay, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  17:38
okay, cool. I'm learning,

Unknown Speaker  17:41
no, yeah, I like that one. Like that one a lot.

Speaker 1  17:45
She works 40 hours a week. That's a that's a job that you would be Oh, yeah, I see Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  17:52
which is fine. I mean, because yeah, good job.

Speaker 1  17:56
That will get better with time after you pay the debt down, right? Well, they even included, then she'll have a non compete so, so basically, nowhere near the area, can she ever do coaching. Hmm, okay, let's relocate locatable. Nice, yeah, I like it. That's a good one. And I've never seen this website before.

Speaker 2  18:33
Yeah, I actually, I stumbled across it from, think I Googled one of the businesses or one of the the keywords from some of the businesses, just to see if there was another marketplace like this by sale. And I, and I happen to run across this by accident, and I

Unknown Speaker  18:54
really like it because it gives you more details. Yeah.

Speaker 2  18:58
Yeah. Hmm, nothing. Yeah, I do. I do notice that for other states, for whatever reason, I guess maybe they don't have a presence there. So there's not a lot of businesses outside of Florida on this. There's some, but, yeah, not a lot.

Unknown Speaker  19:22
Okay, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  19:28
I think we had another question too about the

Speaker 1  19:33
where the owner did not take a salary in one of the years you want to ask that question.

Speaker 2  19:40
Oh, yeah, I think, I think there was one that I forget, which listing it was, though, and I was using this where one of the, I think one of the owners, didn't take a salary one year, so they're, you know, SDE looked a little bit higher, but I. Um, yeah, I don't think I pursued it, so I don't have the information on that one, but I just, I guess I wanted to ask you, but you answered the question earlier, when you said that some sellers won't take a salary for other reasons, and then they might take it in other ways, so it just depends on what their taxes look like, yeah?

Speaker 1  20:22
But the thing, yeah, the thing with SDE, though, is it should factor that in whether they took a salary or not. So, okay, got it SDE, if they took a salary, they've already added that back into this can, yeah, that gets included. It's not an EBITDA, and sometimes it's not even, you know, in net profit or cash flow, but if in SDE, it will already be added back in there. So it really doesn't matter if they took one or not. If that number didn't, didn't change much for SDE, then, you know, it went to somewhere else that also got added back in, whether it's a vehicle or, you know, something like, what you're going to see next year is, every business owner out there right now is buying equipment because of 100% bonus depreciation being back, you're going to have a lot of people buying heavy equipment, just like we're talking about earlier, mowers, tractors, you name. This is the year that people are going to load up on that stuff. Got it okay, because it's, it's essentially free. So yeah, and you know, we talk about, if you have a business and you have a legitimate need for a vehicle, and you use it for 50% business at least, then it is, this year is fully tax deductible completely, as long as it's over 6000 pounds. Oh, wow. Okay, so you can get, you know, there are people out there buying, you know, big trucks, or, you know, the the whole cliche thing was a G wagon. People buying G wagons, which is because of the 6000 pounds, but like a lot of Tahoes, a lot of you know big, big vehicles that at the end of the year, if you, if you buy, you spend 70,000 on it, you take 70,000 deduction at the end of the year so that that comes off of your your tax burden. Okay, as long as you can. You have to log the hours. You have to make sure you know you can use an app for that, but it has to be legitimate, legitimately used for business 50% otherwise you're not going to be able to do it and they will check oftentimes.

Unknown Speaker  22:38
Thank you. Yeah, no problem. So,

Speaker 1  22:45
everybody else got anybody got any questions business? We can look at it.

Unknown Speaker  23:06
You see you got one. Aaron,

Speaker 3  23:10
I was just looking at that website that Katrina was mentioning. I found one in my area. They only list the I'll put in the chat room. They only list the earnings for 2023 so I'm not sure if it's an older listing or not.

Speaker 1  23:25
Okay. Well, some i i noticed that on some of the older or some of the smaller websites, you get stale data. You know, this might not even really be have many new businesses on it at all. It might have been very popular a couple years ago, and it's kind of just still sitting there. You have to to be worried about that. So let's see what we got. Price is 700 Okay, when they say down this, this means that they're, they're not open to seller finance means that they want the full amount of money. Otherwise it would say down, like 350 so you could go get, you could get a loan for 350 they would finance the other that's what that means, discretionary earnings. That's good. It's not bad. 17 year old, commercial heating, so, HVAC, hmm, I never like to see other interests on there that always worries me. Because what are you interested in? More than making $263,000 a year, you know? What is that? Are you going to be a race car driver,

Unknown Speaker  24:45
almost full time?

Unknown Speaker  24:48
They bought it four years ago.

Unknown Speaker  24:58
Okay, let's see. See if we got

Unknown Speaker  25:04
30,000 inventory, 150,

Unknown Speaker  25:07
FF and E,

Speaker 1  25:11
yeah, I don't know other than the this. And you know, this guy may have bought it to flip it. He might have got it a really good deal on it, built it up a little bit and then wants to sell it. Doesn't make it a bad thing. That just means at least somebody been taking care of

Unknown Speaker  25:31
it. But I don't, I don't see any red flags other than that.

Speaker 3  25:36
Okay, I mean, I saw employees full time seven, and I was like, oh, that's, that's a lot more than what you usually see for that, that size business.

Speaker 1  25:46
So, yeah, yeah, definitely, he's willing to do a non compete so, I mean, he's, he's not going to be doing HVAC, which is kind of surprising. So he probably doesn't do HVAC, probably doesn't even, Oh, look. So in California, are you sure you don't have to have one HVAC license in California? I bet you do.

Speaker 3  26:09
Oh, I'm sure you do. Yeah, there you go. I don't know there's what? What if there are any methods around it for being an owner.

Speaker 1  26:16
California is a bear on that, like even construction. They want the owners to have, you know, to have contractor licenses. So I assume it's probably the same way plumbing. Plumbing is the same way too in California.

Unknown Speaker  26:32
Yeah, that's a bummer that, because that's a good business.

Unknown Speaker  26:39
At the final one in Nevada.

Unknown Speaker  26:42
Go across state,

Speaker 3  26:43
yeah, honestly, I've been looking yeah and Reno is included in Memphis, okay, only couple hours away from me. Look, I

Unknown Speaker  27:07
any particular industry

Unknown Speaker  27:10
I'm still looking at anything? Okay, I

Speaker 1  27:47
Okay? Bar swim, school, ice cream.

Unknown Speaker  27:56
There's an HVAC right there. I 296,

Unknown Speaker  28:20
yeah, darn it.

Speaker 1  28:22
It's becoming increasingly more common, you know, but if you knew someone, you could partner. You know, usually they'll let you be a 5050, partner, but you have to have someone with ownership in or you could, you'd have to talk to an attorney in Nevada or in California and say, what if, what if someone is a 10% owner and they have the license? Is that enough or 5% you know, it just depends. Like, I always say that I would like to have an accounting firm, but you can only be 49% owner and not be a CPA and accounting for firms in my state, in most states, but still, you own 49% of an accounting firm, which is probably still a great

Unknown Speaker  29:11
investment, yeah, worth looking into Sure you

Unknown Speaker  29:21
don't want to swim school.

Unknown Speaker  29:29
I'm not leaving anything off the table.

Unknown Speaker  29:33
I mean, I wouldn't be teaching any swimming.

Unknown Speaker  29:42
Believe, fully staffed.

Speaker 1  29:48
They lease an indoor facility heat a pool year round. Retiring, there you go, and you get to swim whenever you want.

Unknown Speaker  30:07
I bet these insurance is ridiculous.

Speaker 3  30:10
Yeah, for sure. Yeah, there was a there was some school in my area. I mean, a much more expensive one is two and a half or something million dollars. So I guess some schools are the big

Unknown Speaker  30:24
business. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  30:33
anybody else got one? They want me to check out

Unknown Speaker  30:41
you guys using biz quest too.

Unknown Speaker  30:44
I've been on biz quest quite a quite a bit recently. I

Speaker 1  31:04
I mean, you can already see it's different businesses, and I had 200,000 in there, but you it's, it's a different

Unknown Speaker  31:13
crop of businesses that that you can see in here,

Unknown Speaker  31:17
owner, financing. What

Speaker 3  31:22
do you think about, like, pressure washing type businesses?

Speaker 1  31:26
Yeah, yeah. Pressure wash, soft wash. I think they're I think they're great. It's all about salesmanship, reaching out to people like a lot of people don't even realize they need it. And it's one of those things where, if you go into a neighborhood and you pressure wash, because we do it with the landscaping. Sometimes you you pressure wash somebody's house, and you put up a sign their yard. You get a call because they've got the only clean house in the neighborhood, and the other neighbors are like, well, we can't, we can't be dirty. Have a dirty house next to their house, and so it's pretty safe, especially the soft wash, because you're just, you're putting chemicals up there, and it's washing everything down, so you're not, you know, blowing siding off with high pressure. And then the driveways are really good, as long as you have one of the big it's actually made for driveways, because otherwise you can't just do it with a regular pressure washer. You have to do it with the big things that are made specifically for concrete that, you know, they spin and make everything even underneath it. But, yeah, I think it's a great business. It's seasonal, though. You can do leaves in the in the fall, but when it hits winter, you're pretty much done for The year.

Unknown Speaker  32:41
Well, out here,

Unknown Speaker  32:43
yeah, yeah, it wouldn't

Speaker 1  33:02
you. But yeah, I mean that there's a lot more available on biz quest here, and this is what I've been seeing in the last few weeks. When I do this a similar search on biz quest, I'm seeing more businesses. So I don't know if it's cheaper to list or I'm not sure what's going on, but seems like they're taking some market share from biz, buy, sell. Okay. Anybody else have any questions? It's been a it's been a lively night. Everybody's half asleep. That's okay.

Speaker 2  33:51
Okay. Do.
