Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It's Thursday, October 9, 2025 and this is the mentorship portion of the evening. I'm just going to open it up. I know some people had some questions. Wilson, you want to ask your question?

Speaker 2  00:21
Yes. Thank you so much for giving me time again. Like said, I was a bit new, so apologies for I'm repeating things that probably have been discussed before. I've taken the queue to look at a bit by sale, and I've actually taken the written up some companies find what these ones I thinking. I think that's when I fancy, so to speak. So I've written, I've got, I just got information for electrical information, electrical company that I tried to listen then of because, again, got information from a salon, something like that, that the owner wanted to sell. But I just want to just narrow down on these three questions that I have. The first question is, because I've done I know about real estate, so I know how to acquire multi families. So I was just thinking, How does, what do you think about a position of senior senior living? That's apartment for senior living. That's the first question, because I know that the capitulation is slightly different from the normal way evaluate normal businesses, because there's a, there's a real estate pathways, right? So that's, that's one of the things first and first question, first question, because there's one I'm looking at here, goes to my place, and it is valid that they get. They are requesting for invitations for bidding. But when I send the mail, the lady said she's asking for 10 million. Minimum cash flow is like a million, no, $7,000 so I don't know how that works, so I just asked you, then secondly, my second question is, I've had, I have a friend that had that went through an issue. Is from South Africa. She came into Canada. She bought a dental practice in Ontario. However, she bought it for a million dollars. However, what happened was that as soon as the customers would, she bought it, thinking that she was going to get the transfer of owner. I mean the businesses, the continue with the patients continue their holistic now this service to the clinic. But incidentally, what happens that in late she bought it, she lost almost 70% of the customer base, and that's that's and so those are part of this whole brings me to question of, how do we look at businesses where the owner play a key role they are, in short, one of the part of the business is the image of the customer of the owner, as in, how do you evaluate risk where, if the owner lives, then there could be an issue with customer base, because that's part of the reason why buying business in the first place. So that's my second question. Then the last question, sorry, sorry, I'm asking this question. Then this last question is SBA. We don't have SBA loan here in Canada. However, we do have some other loans that might be under me of help and the minimum. When I spoke with our EDC bank here, and I was told that you need 10% down payment at the very minimum for for them to for them to look at any business you're looking at. So of course, we're looking at maybe business as well, like 1.5 million, then you're looking at maybe 150 $1,000 currently I only have, I think I have access to 50,000 so of course, they just want to get your feet fit, or know your feeling how you can navigate, maybe creative financing, all those things to to close deals to $50,000

Unknown Speaker  03:59
savings. So that's all my questions. Thank you.

Speaker 1  04:02
Okay, okay, so let me see if I can get get through all these. So the first question was senior living. I love senior living. I like any industry that's closely coupled with real estate, which includes Senior Living storage units, even though the you know, the heyday of storage, storage units is probably past us. It's still a good one. RV parks, anything that comes with real estate that is important to the running of that business. You know, you could the opposite spec on the opposite end of the spectrum, you have businesses that it doesn't matter where they're at, like maybe an ice cream shop, you could as long as you're on, you know, in the middle of the city, it doesn't matter necessarily where you're at. It's not closely coupled to real estate. You can take that ice cream shop and you can rent and lease another building across town, and it might. Do just as well that that's not how it works with storage units, you know you're buying that the structure itself is the business. So it's a it's a different model, but they're generally easier to run and they're easier to finance. Those businesses, I like them a lot. And Senior Living, especially anything that caters to boomers, aging boomers, whether it's medical transport, Senior Living, just you know, they have those services where, you know, traveling nurses go around, they check on people. They have, like Phoenix Home Care. Those are hard to get into if you're not a medical professional, but they're, they're great if you are. But yeah, so I definitely love those businesses. Let's see the second question. What was the second question?

Unknown Speaker  05:56
Second question was

Unknown Speaker  05:58
about the dental practice?

Speaker 1  06:01
Oh, yeah. So about the previous owners? Okay? So that that is definitely a risk. If you have a highly charismatic owner that is deeply involved in the operations day to day, it's tough to overcome that owner leaving. I so I was afraid of that in the last auto repair shop that I bought the, you know, the name, the guy's name was on there, his first name. Everybody in town kind of know, knew of him. You know, he had a reputation for fixing cars and doing whatever. Lot of like articles about how good of mechanic, things like that. But what I saw when I visited the business was he was not fixing any cars, not at all. He was not doing anything other than kind of managing and just standing around and really getting in the way of profit, because he was holding the business back. He was not out in the forefront. He was not dealing with customers, he was not in commercials. He was not, you know, that kind of stuff. So in that situation, it worked out, and actually getting him out of the way. Our last month, we were up 95% year over year on revenues, because we've done the things that we know works and the things that he was preventing from happening. So in that situation, it was great. However, with someone like a dentist, someone that's it's a highly personal profession, you see it a lot of times with barbers, beauticians, anything healthcare related, like massage places where someone comes in, they say, No, I want Dr Bob. He's the only person that I'll let you know, clean my teeth or whatever. Then, yeah, I would not want to do that. I stay away from the medical profession anyway, because regulations in the US are so strict on that, and you generally can't own them. I have no medical background, so I I kind of disregard them anytime they're for sale. But yeah, yeah, that's it's always a risk, so you just have to gage how much day to day involvement the owner has and and just you're almost trying to tell the future, like, what happens if they're not there? You know, what happens to the customer experience if the old owner is not there? Do they notice? Does it matter? Is the quality of service any different? What you know? What's the end result? So those are questions you would have to ask. And the third question, which was about your your version of kind of the SBA in Canada. So I don't know how it works up there, but the SBA used to be really good here, where you could finance a portion through the SBA, and you can do the other portion with seller financing. We have been kind of crushed by the as far as that, that has been crushed by the new administration. You can't do that like I haven't heard of anyone being able to do a hybrid deal since those things were since those possibilities were removed, where the the owner, if they're going to finance a portion of the down payment, where they have to hold that note for 10 years, owners just aren't willing to do that, to take that kind of risk. That doesn't mean that in Canada, it's the same way. So if you could do a hybrid thing where you can do partially seller finance and partial like, say, for instance, you said you have $50,000 to bring on a 1.5 million business. If you could bring 500,000 from you know that your version of the SBA, I forget what you call it, and make. We sell or finance, the other portion, you just have to do that research and figure out if that's even plausible with their regulations. Because I, I don't know, I have no idea, but that's what people in the US used to do before it was not allowed. So it can be a great opportunity, and how you sell that to business owners and business sellers is it reduces their tax burden. So you give them that 500,000 up front, but that other million, you're spreading out that tax burden over years, so it brings that the amount that they have to pay way down. So if you were to just write them a check for 1.5 million, they might pay 300,000 in taxes right there. But if you spread it out over five years with seller financing, they might pay half of that. So that's kind of the selling point there. So I don't know if it's possible, but you would have to look into the guidelines and regulations to see if you can do those hybrid deals. That would be my suggestion.

Speaker 2  11:00
Thank you. Actually, I did ask Yeah, and she said it's possible to do hybrid, but I just need to get a seller that's willing to do the carry. So So, which is very fantastic. So I'll just have to do my information on how to go about it. Thank you so much.

Speaker 1  11:18
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, no problem. So, so if a seller carry is possible there, then that that's how you that's how you market. It to them is that you, you have to bring the numbers in first, and you don't, you don't say sell or carry. You negotiate. Just, okay, this is how we used to do seller financing before they, they kind of ruined it. You would go in to a negotiation and you would say something like, you know, I can, you know, I can get the financing to buy this thing out, right? However, I don't. I'd like to help you out and maybe spread this out over a few years and save you this much money on taxes, if you'd be interested in that. Because I don't know about you, but I don't like to pay taxes. And I'm sure you know you wouldn't want to take this large chunk of money and pay taxes when you don't have to. So you kind of frame it in a way that you're doing them a favor, as opposed to them doing you a favor, because really, at the end of the day, you're helping each other out. But if you just come into a negotiation with that, seller, carry, seller carry, or seller financing in a situation like that, they think it spooks people, and they think it's a red flag. They think you can't afford to buy the business, so therefore, you know it's it's too risky. So just go in, like you own the place, and like, I can buy this, but let me help you out and and see what they say. Great questions, and that's awesome. We're international now we're in Canada. That's cool. Anybody else have any questions? Jordan, did you have something, a business you wanted to

Speaker 3  13:06
look at? I did. I don't have a website, because it's not live. I just kind of random. I was at one of my landscape supply stores the other day. And the, know, the I mean, I know the guy. I've seen him multiple times. He's like, him and his wife own it. He's like, 80 something years old, and he just randomly had the blue and said, Do you want to buy this place? And I was like, What are like, are you serious? And he was like, he goes, Yeah, I can't do this anymore. I think I'm listed next month. And I was like, I don't know that I can afford this. And he's like, I own a finance I don't want to pay taxes all at one time. I was like, Okay. I was like, let's have a conversation. So we're supposed to meet, like, next week to seriously talk about this. And I know I don't, like, have things like, show you normally, like, we pull something up or whatever. But like, I guess, like, what are questions that I should be asking? And I know, I know the standards that you would look for. But like, obviously, you know, I don't know what the price is. He wants to include real estate too. That's about, I think total, it's like two and a half acres. So it's a house, a greenhouse, like a building that you sell stuff out of, and then all of the equipment, and then they also have a landscaping business that's that goes along with the nursery.

Speaker 1  14:42
Okay, so, as it's been there for a long time, I assume they've they started, yeah, since 1976 oh, wow, wow. Okay, so you know, just, just like any business, you're going to want to know that those numbers, you need to know that cash flow. You need to know what they're asking for. It. You need to know what that real estate is worth before you go into that deal. So you can do a lot of things. So is it a rural area? I mean, you said it's two acres, so it's obviously outside of town somewhere, right?

Speaker 3  15:16
It is not in city, but it is in County. It's incorporated in the county. It's, it's weird because Florida, like, the way they're like, kind of, I would not, it's not considered rural. There's several, several subdivisions and shopping centers that are nearby.

Speaker 1  15:38
Okay, yeah, so you need to know what the real estate is worth. You need to have an a ballpark that you don't want to go into that blind. And you need to know that the financial he has to provide you with the financials, not necessarily formally in that first meeting, but you need to have a discussion about, you know, they, they need to kind of know what they want for it and what it makes. And if you can find out what the cash flow is, then you can formulate your number pretty quickly. You know, if it's making 200 grand a year, you know, okay, the business, I could probably pay 600,000 for the business, and the real estate is worth about this much. This could be a good offer right here. Boom. And with a seller finance situation, the the terms of the seller financing are almost more important than the deal, than the price of the deal, right? Because, if you think about it, right, you could buy a business for $1 billion but if you only have to pay 100 bucks a month on your terms, that's a great deal, right? You'll die paying $100 a month. But, I mean, people, that's a silly scenario, but people get caught up on that asking price a lot of times, and they don't look at the deal. You know, it might be a deal for 500,000 but they want so much money per month and upfront that it makes it a bad deal. Or, you know, they want a huge balloon payment after a year, that makes it a bad deal. Whatever, you know, the terms are very, very important, but that so, I mean, I guess you know them, right, if you've,

Speaker 3  17:15
I mean, I don't know, I say I know them like I I know his first name, but I wouldn't even say I'd know them right, like, I don't even like they're not even acquaintances, because I just frequent there a lot when I'm picking up stuff, like for clients and stuff. But I guess another question is, I think I've heard you mention this before on some of the calls that I was watching about businesses that have, like, houses involved too. So I you know, one option would be to buy it, and then you can kind of live on it, right? And then another option is to kind of like, split it up and buy the house separately and buy the business, like property separately. Yeah.

Speaker 1  18:00
I mean, there's a lot of options. You could, you could buy it and you could rent out that house. You could Airbnb that house. You could, you could whatever. I mean, are they wanting to move from the house and include the house? Do you know that

Speaker 3  18:09
for sure? Yeah, yeah, no. He, yeah. He's like, I'm ready to move. I'm ready to move near my kids.

Unknown Speaker  18:14
So, like, we're like, we need to get out of here.

Speaker 1  18:20
I mean, that it's a great situation. You know, that's the ideal seller right there. That's a person who has made their money. They probably are financially comfortable, not worried about anything. They know that they're in their golden years and they want to be closer to family. That's human nature.

Speaker 3  18:36
I mean, he said that he goes, when I go to dinner, I eat dessert first, because I don't even know if I'm gonna make it through dinner. You dinner. I mean, I laughed, but he was like, No, I'm serious. He's like, I don't know how much longer I can do this, so like, I need to sell this business. And he's like, and he know in the house, he's like, he's the one that said My house is 50 years old. It needs a little bit of work, but I think it'd be great for you. And I was like, okay, you don't even know me, but

Unknown Speaker  19:01
so that's why I was like,

Speaker 1  19:03
and maybe, you know, I wouldn't, I wouldn't put a price out there. I would just have it in my head, what it's worth. You know, you know how to eat quickly calculate a number in your head once you find out what it's making, what your cash flow is. But until then, you know, they probably have a price in mind. And if they're older, like that, sometimes they don't understand what they have. And that can go both ways. A lot of owners highly overvalue their company, their business. They think it's worth a million, $2 million dollars because of all the work they put into it, and other owners, they highly undervalued. So it just depends on on who they are, how motivated they are, but, but, yeah, man, I would jump all over that. Have that conversation. What's the worst thing that can happen? You know, do. Meet with them, feel it out, create a rapport, ask them questions about the business, like, how do you start it, you know, what? How'd you get through the pandemic? How, you know, what were the biggest struggles? You know, how many employees do you have? What's the best part about it? What's the worst part about it? You know, just have a lot of reverence for the amount of work and what they they have accomplished. They built something from nothing that sustained their life, that what probably put their kids through college. They're, you know, and they're, they're moving on. So that is something to be highly respected. And once you get someone in the a business owner talking about their business. Everything flows. So just see if you can get them talking. Learn everything you can. And I don't know if it's something you're interested in, and you could see yourself buying that business. That might be the biggest opportunity of your life, that just kind of fell into your lap. And these things happen for a reason. There's no There's no

Speaker 3  21:02
the only, I guess one of the concerns I have is about employees. So I know for a fact that one is managers, or if he was the manager, one of his managers, like left two years ago and started his own, like, wholesale landscaping company. And so I just like thoughts on, like, he's, like, probably five miles on the street with his business. Like, do you think of that as, like, too much competition? Is that? Like, you know, I don't know. Like, obviously he, I mean, two years ago, he could have sold it if he wanted to two years ago, but he didn't want to sell it to him. So it's like, is that like a red flag, I guess?

Speaker 1  21:49
Well, I mean, it's a concern. I don't know if it's a red flag that, you know it, they're probably, they probably, probably had a falling out. Otherwise he would have gone to that guy to try to sell this, probably, and maybe he has gone to that guy and the guy didn't want it. But you know, so if, if that happened a couple years ago, you have two years of financials to see if there's been a huge hit in the business since that happened. If there hasn't been and there hasn't been much change, then I think it's okay, but if you see a deterioration in profit and revenue starting at about that point, or it's it's a huge downward trend, then yes, that would be a red flag. Okay, yeah, all right, yeah, make that meeting man, have that conversation. See what happens. Who knows you

Unknown Speaker  22:44
things are happening that's cool.

Speaker 1  22:50
What about everybody else? Anybody else got any questions? Or I can't go to biz by sell because it won't let me share my screen, unfortunately. But you could tell us the numbers. We can go through it. If you have another one.

Speaker 3  23:05
I don't have another deal. But I did want to say follow up from from last week's conversation. I did follow up on that house that you looked up in last week's and I think it looks really great. But when I got interior pictures of the property is like a complete gut job. So that's why it looks really great on paper. But there was only like four pictures listed, so that was the deal with that.

Speaker 1  23:35
Okay, okay, so you wouldn't be willing to rehab it was it heavy or,

Speaker 3  23:42
yeah, I mean, it's like, it's not all cosmetic stuff, but, you know, new flooring, new paint, new vanities, new kitchen cabinets, like all of that,

Unknown Speaker  23:54
like no structural stuff.

Speaker 3  23:58
But I don't think it's worth it at that the rehab is not worth it at that price. And the owners, I think that they'll probably come down eventually. I guess the owners inherited the house from their grandparent who lives next door, or the duplex from their grandparent who lives next door, and now the owners need some money, and so they're trying to sell it, and they said that they can't take less than what they have it listed for. But time will tell, I guess,

Speaker 1  24:31
yeah, might be worth keeping an eye on it, see if it comes down to make it feasible. There's also in the in the community resources, there's a rehab calculator, if you're looking to see, like, how much is flooring going to be, it'll give you a ballpark by the square footage.

Speaker 3  24:46
And yeah, so I've done a couple rehab projects, and I kind of like, know, a guesstimate of, like, no price per square footage on rehab so. And I think the other thing is. Those tenants are. They're way. They're paying way under market value. Like, when I was talking to my realtor about it, she was like, those should be renting for 1100 each, and they're paying seven. The rent rolls said they were paying 750, and 800 Yeah.

Speaker 1  25:19
I mean, there you go, just that alone, going in there, upping the rents to market value, if you can stomach it, because that's not something that's easy. You're you're taking people that have been living there for a long time and either crushing them financially or making them leave. And I it's not something I like to do. So I just, I don't know how you feel about it, but just, just think about, you know, there are, it's business, yeah, but these are people's lives too, you know? So there everything comes as a at a trade off.

Speaker 3  25:55
So yeah, I kind of follow that caution too, right? Like, I remember when I used to have to, like, rent, and I would deal with that too. So I just try to, like, treat people how I would want it Now, granted, like, maybe going up on rent gradually would work, but just saying outright, like, Oh, your rents gonna go up $300 overnight. Like, you know, I don't think I would like that so, but yeah, no, I'm gonna keep watching it, and if they go down on the price, I would, in fact, my realtor said that if it's on the market with 15 more days, he's like, we'll send them an offer just to see what they say.

Speaker 1  26:30
So yeah, if they have a certain amount of money they need to get, then there's also a timeline on that money. So if they can't get it, yeah, exactly. I think that's a good strategy. Well, that's cool. I mean, we just randomly found a decent property to potentially invest in. Just never know. That's why you just put you keep looking at this stuff long enough, there are opportunities out there, and there are people on social media all the time saying, there's no good deals, there's no businesses. You can't find anything online. Nobody wants to sell their finance. Well, that's that's just because they have an attitude where they're not going to, you know, they're not going to put in that work every single day. You have to look at 100 businesses before you find a good one. You have to look at, you know, 100 duplexes before you find one that works. And most people are not willing to do that.

Unknown Speaker  27:21
So you got to be a weirdo like us, right?

Speaker 3  27:27
Yeah, that's for sure. And it definitely does not happen overnight.

Speaker 1  27:32
No, no. It takes work. All they see, all people see is the results. And they'll think, oh, man, I wish, I wish. I, you know, was had their life or or I could have been lucky like that. What they don't see is the work it took to get lucky that, and nobody wants that.

Unknown Speaker  27:58
Because Lucky is not a real thing.

Speaker 1  28:01
Resourceful is a real thing. Dedicated is a real thing. Lucky is what people call you after you've been dedicated and resourceful.

Speaker 4  28:20
Anybody else have any questions? Hey, Shane, I got a few. No cool doc this week, though. Okay, so, um, prefacing question before I get into the specifics. Do you I was told by a broker that SBA loans require the seller to have a non compete. Do you know, like, the specifics of, like, the term for that? Do you know how many miles it is, or how that's structured?

Speaker 1  28:50
I have done an SBA loan, where it was five years and the county, but I think it's dependent upon your area. And I don't know if it might be square miles or concentration of Cust, I don't know population. I'm not sure, but I know they want a non compete that is going to be not just, not just like, say, for instance, it's, I don't know, say it's, it's auto repair. I always go back to that because it's easy. So they can't fix cars. They can't hire someone to fix cars. They can't give your give a customer list to someone to fix cars, like basically, they can't be involved in any way in fixing cars, even advising in fixing cars, because they could steal your it's all about stealing your customers. That's what the SBA is concerned about. So good rule of thumb is that county five years, any participation in that industry is what they're, what they are looking for. And it's, it's so common in acquisitions that it's, it's almost in every single purchase agreement. It's just a given. Mm. You know, you don't want to buy a restaurant from, you know, Ted's pizzeria, and Ted opens up Ted's meatball shop next door. It's just, it's a no brainer. You know, it would be a business killer.

Speaker 4  30:16
I got you. The reason I ask is I'm looking at one opportunity. But so just to preface there's like, it's another restaurant, three locations throughout the state. One is like down in the Keys, like 100 miles away, super far, and then the other two are like, within 10 miles of each other. The seller is selling the most profitable one, which is, like in downtown, really busy area

Unknown Speaker  30:47
without, like, non cash add backs, profit is 100,000

Speaker 4  30:51
listed for 2 million. The reason for selling is he's, like, semi retiring. He had health issues, and then, apparently, now he wants to spend more time with the family, so he's looking to exit, but he's not listed the other two restaurants.

Speaker 1  31:08
So are they branded the same?

Unknown Speaker  31:11
Yeah, they're all same name, yeah.

Speaker 4  31:15
So do you think because they're like 10 miles away from each other, like 15 minute highway drive that's gonna automatically be a no go for the SBA, unless you buy them both.

Unknown Speaker  31:30
Is it same county?

Speaker 4  31:33
Um, I'm not sure. Honestly, I don't have, like, a county. I mean, they're not, let me look it up honestly,

Speaker 1  31:43
because all of those non competes generally have a some sort of a location or a range for the non compete, if it's in a different county, or you can, you can say within 15 mile radius, something like that, that would probably be acceptable, but this would be a weird deal, because you're buying a business that has this name. You don't have exclusive rights to that name because he also has two other locations with the same name. You know, usually you're buying the goodwill of that business completely, but you would just be buying into that location. I don't know that makes it I'm not saying it would be a bad deal. It just makes it strange. And the fact that he's selling this one, which is the biggest one, is this the one that he was spending the most time in, is that the issue he was there all the time, or something?

Speaker 4  32:39
I believe so. And he also bought a restaurant right next to the one he's selling. So it's like, um, he's offering two listings, like, there is just the main profitable one, which is like the one listed, and then there's another one that would be an asset sale, which is like a ramen shop. It's like, not profitable, though. So I don't know why he they're literally right next to each other, like they're touching.

Speaker 1  33:05
So he probably got it really cheap. Thought he could turn it around, maybe.

Speaker 4  33:12
But I don't think I'd want to buy that second one that's not making money.

Speaker 1  33:17
But why would you ever want to buy any business that's not making money. Nope, that's not what we do.

Speaker 4  33:25
Well, I mean a little bit of prefacing questions, and you can interrupt me as I go into more detail if I need to clarify anything so pressing questions. Is this probably something that brokers telling me to try to pull my leg and I forgot the other question, but mainly just that. So the brokers sent me the PnL on Monday. They told me they just got it Monday. They only have numbers 2024, and a PNL through June. And they got that to me on Monday, and the broker is telling me they have another buyer already in contract trying to get the SBA loan. But to me, that doesn't make sense, because how could you be trying to get the SBA loan and be under contract with only two years of financials and you just got the PnL for this year?

Speaker 1  34:21
Well, I mean, that doesn't mean, it doesn't mean that some other buyer is just head over heels for the business and is willing to overlook those things. And then also, you know, when you enter into a letter of intent, or, you know, due diligence, you have full purview of all the financials, so you have the, you know, direct contact with the point of sale, like they can do that those reports themselves so they can dig into it, find out what's going on. They don't have to wait for those statements. They can create them themselves, so that that's kind of weird. And then also the letter. Intent is generally makes it an exclusive thing, where they can't shop it around. But this must not have been the case. So either they didn't have an exclusive like, Hey, don't shop it around, or it's a lie, and there's nobody else on the hook, and they're just trying to say, well, you know, if you don't buy this right now, someone else is going to buy it. You know that whole Old School salesman thing?

Speaker 4  35:26
Yeah, another thing that pushed me toward that side is he did tell me I could still set up a meeting with the seller, if I show like higher proof of funds and what they originally requested. And they're still taking backup offers, but I can still meet with them,

Speaker 1  35:43
a broker, a broker like that, I would say, Well, if this deal falls through, come talk to me, because I don't, you know, I don't. I'm an exclusive buyer. I'm not going to waste my time doing due diligence and looking into a business that someone else is going to buy. So come back to me when you're serious about selling to me, that's what I would tell if they're if they're talking like that, I don't play those games. Gotcha?

Speaker 4  36:09
I don't know. It's just I really did like this one, like the whole family's on board with this on is it worth just like playing that risk? Yeah.

Speaker 1  36:19
I mean, if someone else is already there, and it's a it's a good deal. Do you want to get into a bidding war with somebody that you don't even know over? I don't know I it's just not how most acquisitions work. You know, you find it, you set a price, and then you, you go from there, you what you're doing is you're verifying the price that you know it's worth. And if you can't verify the price that you know it's worth during due diligence, then you you walk if you can, then you move forward, and you do a purchase agreement, and you get it done. But like putting another buyer into that process would make everything weird, and you're going to submit an offer, they're going to submit an offer, and then you're like, you know, it's an auction, and you can only lose, in that situation, a business is worth what it's worth.

Unknown Speaker  37:14
Yeah, I wouldn't want to be in

Unknown Speaker  37:18
that don't even go for the meeting or anything, just Yeah.

Speaker 1  37:21
I mean, it's up to you if, if you're okay and with it, and you think that you know you could bring a better offer, but

Speaker 4  37:30
still make it Yeah. I mean, I'm not looking to get into a bidding more, like you said. Just, I would it hurt to pass up on this opportunity, but if that would be what you do, then

Speaker 1  37:41
you could always have the meeting and just make it, make them fully aware that you're not getting into some kind of back and forth thing, that if this falls through, that you're interested, but you know, you're not, you're not trying to undercut anybody. And if you do enter into negotiations to buy it, you would be an exclusive buyer, and you would want an LOI that says I'm the only buyer right now. You're not shopping it. You're not going to, you're not going to do to me what you're doing to the current buyer,

Unknown Speaker  38:18
and meaning they don't take backup offers. Yeah,

Speaker 1  38:21
yeah, I, I don't like that at all. I don't I wouldn't want to be two months into, or a month into due diligence, where I've spent hours and hours looking over everything, and, you know, I may have already given stuff to an accountant and whatever. And then another offer comes in that's 50 grand over what My offer is. And then I'm out. Hell no, I got you. You know, like, due diligence is not cheap. It's not cheap for your personal time, and it's not cheap for the people that help you do it. So, yeah, I wouldn't want to be looking over my shoulder for another buyer to come in and swoop it so, yeah, I don't compete with other buyers. When it gets to that point, all the Lois that I put in are exclusive Lois. And if they're not down with that, then Okay, then I'll walk I got you, and they're probably going to come back and say, Well, okay, we change our mind. It's almost a negotiation thing. And maybe this buyer is a not, not an educated buyer. They don't know what they're doing. They're just, you know, they think it's a good deal and they're going to do whatever. But you could have the meeting, but that that's, that's how I would play that meeting. I would say I'm not interested in competing with someone else. If this falls through, I'm, I'm interested, but I'm an exclusive buyer.

Speaker 4  39:49
Yeah, I mean, my main sticklers was just like, I don't just like, I don't know. I didn't get the feeling it was like a real buyer, like, just the wording of it, how they communicated. It, yeah, and they can't even get an SBA loan right now. I mean, at least until the government reopens, like you're not gonna finalize that, yeah, who knows how it seems like this one might be a long one, yeah.

Speaker 1  40:14
I mean, it has the makings of being particularly long so, and then when it does reopen, they're going to be so backlog, it's going to take forever to actually get anything done. So, I mean, I don't know. And that's even if there is a buyer, it might be completely made up.

Speaker 4  40:33
Would it be like, over the line to kind of call the broker and ask, like, some of the questions, like, how are they going under contract without any other financials? I know you said they could do that with a like, point of sales people, but maybe they don't know that well.

Speaker 1  40:51
I mean, just because we have our rules and standards to make sure that we're entering into a good deal doesn't mean that other people do that. What they you know, last year's financials might have been enough for them to enter into a letter, you know, due diligence. You know, there's all kinds of buyers out there. There's people that are just just complete gamblers, that have a lot of money, or are just so passionate about buying that particular business that they're willing to overlook anything, you know, so it just because we're smart buyers doesn't mean everyone is they might be just completely passionate and don't care about this year's financials because they believe in it so much.

Unknown Speaker  41:38
That's true. I could be someday.

Speaker 4  41:42
Okay, thank you. Last question would be just kind of general, what do you normally do in the first meeting? Like, do you go to a restaurant and eat? Do you meet at like, a park? Like, what? What's like the standard? Like, you know,

Speaker 1  41:56
I usually meet them after hours at the business. I want to see it at the same time, like so, if it's a laundromat, you know, we'll go and at the time where there's not going to be very many people there early in the morning, later at night, if it's a restaurant, after everything's closed, whatever, or like on a Sunday, maybe if they're not open seven days a week. But I would rather go right into the lion's den and see what's going on with the business, and talk to them where, where they're comfortable, because you get it's two birds, one stone. You see the business, you know, for what it is. And then at the same time, while you're there, you can ask questions like, Oh, I see you did this. You know, when did you do that? Or there's pictures on the wall. There's the first dollar that they ever made. Like there's so many ways that you can you can open up avenues of communication to get you know everything flowing because that first meeting, you're not talking numbers, at least not initially. You don't want to mention one single number. You're talking about the business, you're talking about, the history, you're talking about personal stuff, you're just trying to become acquainted with them, because you might find that you hate the owner. The owner might be a dick, and if that's the case, you also don't want to be involved, because you're going to have to deal with this person for months, and you'll get a vibe. Can I trust this person? Are they just a nice person, or they do. They seem like they have scruples, whatever. But yeah, that's what I like to do. I would much rather meet at the business itself, because if you go to a restaurant, what are you going to talk about, the weather and

Unknown Speaker  43:36
different business restaurant,

Speaker 1  43:38
okay, so you could, are they open? Are they like, a lunch place? So they have breakfast. You could go in, like, in the morning and meet before the employees get there. You but if it's if it's open all the time, that that's tough.

Speaker 4  43:54
They're open like 11 to 2am so maybe I could go like nine or something,

Speaker 1  43:58
yeah, yeah, set a meeting for nine in the morning on a weekday or a Saturday or something. And that way, it gives you, like an hour to see the place, to talk to them, to get a handle on who they are and what the business is all about, without spooking employees.

Speaker 4  44:17
Well, that's another thing. Apparently all the employees know. He tried to sell it to like an employee, and then, like the rumors spread, and now everyone there knows.

Speaker 1  44:25
So okay, well, then it wouldn't even matter. You could say, Hey, I'd like to meet you at the business, and you could sit down and have a meal with them. So then you get to know if it's good food. How good is the food? Is that the one that your mom, your mom didn't like?

Speaker 4  44:44
No, no, it's a different Okay, that one was like a pizza shop. This one is like a tapas kind of place, you know, okay? But yeah, um, I know you said no numbers. Does that include like, kind of thing at the end? I like this business, but, you know, I'm looking to be an exclusive buyer. Is that something?

Speaker 1  45:04
Yeah, no, there'll be a point in the conversation, because you're both there for a reason, where it becomes the right thing to talk about. People just get excited and they want to talk about it immediately. They want here's the mistakes that they usually make in that first deal or the first meeting, they want to talk about the price, and they want to start negotiating and say it's not worth, you know, those things. And then also, they want to talk about the changes that they would make in the business. You don't want to go in there, because that's like, you know, insulting the business owner. Like, oh, I would do it like this if I had it. They don't want to hear that, you know, they've, they've built something that they're proud of. And finally, they're at a point in their life where, like, Okay, I'm going to sell it, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to cash out, I'm going to make my money. All this hard work is going to pay off. And the last thing they want to know is some, you know, snot nosed kids going to come in and switch everything around and think they're smarter than me, that kind of mentality, especially if it's a boomer, yeah, so, yeah. I mean, you'll feel it when you're talking to the owner. There'll be a certain point where you're you've been talking about the business, and maybe you can talk a little bit of number, you know, like, you know, what are you hoping to get out of this. You know, why did you decide to sell now? You know, why not? Why not a few years ago? Or why not? And you know, there'll be a vibe, there'll be a lull in the conversation, or a vibe. You just have to be able to read the room. But you you're both going to that meeting wanting to talk about it, you know, it's just, you don't, you don't want to be the one who forcefully brings it up. But there'll be a right time. Okay, I know that's not a great answer, but it's just how,

Unknown Speaker  46:56
no, I mean, I kind of get what you mean. Okay,

Speaker 1  47:01
it's almost like, like going on a date in the first kiss, like you're not going to just run in there and put one on her at the beginning, right? You have to talk and get comfortable. And then then you you just feel that it's the right time to to start that conversation, because it's almost a job interview for you. You know, it's different than buying real estate. When you go to buy real estate, they don't care who you are. They just want to know that you can bring the money with a, you know, a business the owner is not only wanting to know that you can close the deal, they want to know that you're capable. They want to know that you're not going to drive it into the ground, and you know, all their employees are going to lose their jobs and their livelihoods because you were a bad operator. There's a lot, a lot of nuance going on in there where they want to know that you're you're smart, you're capable, you're responsible, you're serious, and you can bring the money, because there are often times where you could go and talk to an owner, and you have everything in place, and it's a great price, and the owner's like, No, I don't want to sell to them, and they don't have to do they don't have to explain it for any reason.

Speaker 4  48:14
Gotcha? Okay? Thank you so much. You

Speaker 1  48:24
anybody else got any questions? This is a good night. I like it. Sorry about the technical difficulties. They will be fixed by next week.

Speaker 5  48:37
The last week, did you see where I was getting into some other things I did not okay, um, so I've started working with the trucking software guy. He, he, he still does the trucking software where I used to work, but he's gone off and built his own, so I'm helping him get that Vamped up and going, okay. And there's a lot of different ways you can make money off that software. I've learned he he's doing it like a pay per click. The ads at the bottom are behind the screen doing that factoring companies will pay you a percentage if you bring the carriers. Anyways, we're integratement to the gills now, and we're going to be pushing it out to these guys that teach trucking the trucking classes first. So. So I'm getting hooked up in a network of those, and

Unknown Speaker  50:06
that's how some starting.

Speaker 1  50:09
Okay, yeah, there. There's a lot of different models for a early startup, like tech platform, whether it's, you know, some kind of so when you say, trucking software, is it, like plotting roots? Is it,

Unknown Speaker  50:27
you know, a payment platform, like, what is it

Unknown Speaker  50:34
he's trying to, like,

Unknown Speaker  50:37
given away, so to

Unknown Speaker  50:39
speak, yeah, well, well, that's the

Speaker 5  50:42
pay per click. But if you don't the ads, he's, he's just, like, a $40 per user per month thing. Yeah?

Speaker 1  50:52
I mean, that's very common. So you have the ad supported version where, if you don't mind the ads all around it, you can do it, or you, you know, you have a couple of features and you want no ads, then you have a paid version. I mean, that happens everywhere, especially like in like landscaping we use, we use yard book is the name of the software that we use. And when we first started using it, it was completely free. But you don't you and you get everything you need. But as you scale and you get bigger, they know that you want. You want to be able to text your customers directly. You want to be able to market to them. You want to be able to give them better looking invoices and things like that. They know you're going to pay for it if you stick with them long enough. And that that's kind of the model, like, give away half of everything, but keep some things back that are really cool that a bigger company would want, and then you have a customer for the long term that's going to pay whatever because they don't want to change. They're already using you for free, and they upgrade to the paid version. It's so difficult to take all your all your customer records, and every whatever it is, and move it to another platform that it makes it a great model. You kind of get your hooks in somebody and they're stuck, yeah, you're also providing a good service, but, like, it's very inelastic,

Speaker 5  52:20
definitely, but I'm getting all of my my bells and whistles that I ever want to put in this, and all my suggestions are coming to fruition. And it's like, yeah,

Speaker 1  52:33
okay, so you're like a SME, which is a subject matter expert, right? So that's that's very important. On any software platform, you bring in someone who would be using it every day and has experience using that stuff and knows what's required and knows what other users want. It's very important part of the process of the software development cycle.

Speaker 5  52:53
It is he called. He contacted me immediately, as soon as I left the other place, and was like, Hey, do you want to do this? And I'm like, Yeah, I like that. So I'm all in Nice. So now we're we're really building now

Unknown Speaker  53:12
that's cool. That's a good opportunity. Is he paying you?

Unknown Speaker  53:15
Yes, okay, gotta get paid. That's right.

Speaker 4  53:30
Hey, one more thing that slipped my mind earlier that might affect like the loans or anything. So the three locations are all under like the same entity, so all their profits costs are in one tax return, like the P and L's are separated the ones that I have, and I'm sure, like the point of sales can be like differentiated, but all the actual tax returns are combined between the three stories. Is that gonna make it like impossible to get approved.

Unknown Speaker  54:03
It's going to be tough. They're going to have to give you,

Speaker 1  54:09
hopefully, access to the tax returns for the whole thing. Do they give you that? Are they? Are they willing to give you all of it?

Speaker 4  54:18
They haven't given me the I haven't asked for the tax return for all of it, but I'm sure they'd be willing to, like, during due diligence, if it was like, until they get the loan. But I just don't know if, like, a bank or the SBA would be willing to, like, dissect it.

Speaker 1  54:32
Well, they're probably going to want p and L's for everything. So they're they're probably going to have to give you p and L's for the other three as well, because otherwise, how are you going to know how it breaks down? You have your P and L, but, and, but how did they actually record that on the taxes? So, yeah, I would, I would want to be able to see, and it's, it's kind of weird because of the structure of that deal, but I would want to see the. P and L's for everything. Got him. I mean, why would it? Why if you're, if you're under an NDA, why would the owner care if you saw the P and L's for businesses that he doesn't want to sell unless he's I

Speaker 4  55:14
think they just don't have it, honestly, because, I mean, they just got me the year to date. So the CFO like for him is kind of just like slow I guess. I don't even know if they have PNLs for the other one.

Speaker 1  55:28
Well, I mean that many locations, they should have a dedicated accounting firm doing their books.

Speaker 4  55:36
No, he has, like, some lifelong friend that does all the books for him and

Speaker 1  55:42
Okay, well, that's a red flag. Be careful about that. The SBA will also view that differently. If that person is not a CPA,

Speaker 4  55:51
oh, they are, okay, okay. They're just friends as well,

Speaker 1  55:54
like, gotcha. Okay. Well, that's all right. Then if they're a CPA that they'll take that as the full and 100%

Unknown Speaker  56:02
true. Numbers.

Speaker 4  56:05
Okay, do you know how many years they generally need to do an SBA loan? Like, because, like, five years, three.

Speaker 1  56:12
They want three. They want three at least, okay. And the more you can give them, the better you can ask for five can't hurt it's just sending you a PDF, right? Why should they care?

Speaker 4  56:26
Yeah, do you think, like, during due diligence for general businesses, you should look at how they were doing pre covid, or is that, like, just too far back where it doesn't matter?

Speaker 1  56:35
That's pretty far. It was a different world, pre covid. You know, look how much has changed. Like, what they were doing in 2019 is like, like early 2019 and 18 is like a different, a complete different thing.

Unknown Speaker  56:52
I just completely discount

Speaker 1  56:56
up into like, I want to see three, four and five. That's what makes the most, most difference to me, is like and then three is a little up in the air because they're still PPP. But 24 hugely important. Year to date, hugely important. And then 23 maybe not as much. 22 and 2120 they're probably going to be much higher because of PPP. So I just those are outliers, but I want three, four and year to date, that's that's what I'm going to base my decision on. The SBA might want to see 22 as well, but for me, personally, I want to see three, four and this year,

Unknown Speaker  57:39
not the truth. Okay. Thank you.

Speaker 2  57:47
A quick question. I keep seeing, when I review documents or financials, I keep seeing a situation where, you know, for a three year period, 2022 2023 24 the 24 values is actually significantly less than 2022 and what has been advertised on this by sale, the owners or the workers, they use the figure for 2022 as the for the person for the discretionary earnings, who are The values high so, for example, I'm looking at the BT shop right now, right the value was advertised as Sde $500,000 however, when I get got the financials, found that the was only 22 that was actually $500,000.23 2024 or six point less. So those considerations. Don't know why that is. And again, I see that when they compare, when they compare SDE with EBITDA, which is the profit and NS before insurance and tax and depreciation, you find out that the value becomes lower, significantly lower than SDE, because I used to think that they are more or less same thing. You know, in some cases, they are more or less same thing. Maybe I know much. I don't know what I need to even find out the difference, but, but when, in the case where EBITDA is significant, less, obviously a bank is going to use EBITDA. A bank here, they use EBITDA, not SDE, so I don't know how you get those conversations.

Speaker 1  59:24
Yeah, well, when, when they're when you see a listing, and the numbers that they put forth are the highest numbers within the last three years. That's a tactic. They're putting that out there because they're trying to get a better price it. I don't think they should be able to do that, but they do it all the time. You see it, especially with franchises, they do all kinds of shady things to make it look like it's more valuable than it is. So in a situation like that, I like to average 2324 and then try to get a projection for 25 especially now you know we're in. October, it should be pretty easy to get a projection for 25 and then that's your number that you use. And then as far as the difference between EBITDA and cash flow, EBITDA is is a number that you use on a business that is a certain size, like, you know, over 1.6 something like that, and asking price, then you're going to use EBITDA. Or if you're trying to relate and compare one business to the other, and you don't, you know, one business might have real estate involved and another one might not. It's the number that allows you to compare those together, because it's, you know, it's before depreciation, you know, before income tax. It's like, it's a number that's that cuts all the fat off of it, so you can see what the business is doing, regardless of whether or not they have real estate or not. Does that make sense?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:54
Yes, it does things. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:01:05
Okay, all right, this was a good night. I appreciate all the questions. And I'll get this recorded, and I'll go ahead and I will on the video for this. I'll upload the for the actual live class. I'll upload the PDF that goes with it. So do you have the slides and everything to review along with it that might help? Go ahead, stop this.
