Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. We are going to start the mentorship Q and A. It is Thursday May 15, 2025 and Keith has a question. Can you repeat your question?

Speaker 2  00:15
Keith, yes, so I'm looking at a smog shop in California. Owner is probably going to retire. They're probably, I'm under the assumption that they get rid of it. The reason I know this is through a family friend family. This family friend owns the entire property. They own. Actually a mechanic shop themselves too, and he says that the owner already told him that he want to leave and get rid of it. So what can I do to prepare for this potential meeting and for the for this business to buy this business?

Speaker 1  00:48
Okay, so you're going to be me. You're going to be going in there without a letter of intent and without talking about any price, right? Like you won't, yeah, it's very informal. And now the owner will definitely be there, though, right?

Speaker 2  01:01
Yeah, I'll be meeting with the owner and my family friend.

Speaker 1  01:04
Okay, so first thing I would say is, don't talk numbers like Don't even mention anything about numbers to begin with. Just ask about the business. Ask about the history of the business. Why he started it? You know, what have been the challenges? What has been your your most proud moment, you know. And then, obviously, you know why he's selling, because he's aging, but just ask about that. Like, you know, what are you going to do with your time if you sell? And, you know, just, just kind of build a rapport first, and then then, usually they're going to talk about what they want for the business, whether or not you know whether they want to sell soon, whether they're thinking about next year. You know, are they really serious about it? Do they even know what it's worth? Like, all that kind of stuff will come up naturally and organically. Like the the worst thing you can do, though, is just come in and talk numbers off the top. You want, you want to make sure that they know you're serious. They didn't know you're interested, and they know that you're respectful of the owner's effort. And you know, this is a huge moment to them to sell that. You know, it's a life, one of those, you know, huge turning points in someone's life. So as long as you're cognizant of that, you can go a long way, and you know, and just learn everything you can about the business, you know. And then once, once you get into the nitty gritty of it, you ask, like, procedural questions, you know, operating procedures, like, Okay, how do you guys, do you advertise? You can, like, break the waters, like that. Are you, you know, doing Google ads? Are you doing this, you know, is the regulation stripped with the smog shop, you know, just get them talking more than anything. Okay, information will start flowing. And then if, if, toward the end, if nothing was mentioned as far as numbers.

Unknown Speaker  03:03
You could just, you can just say something like,

Speaker 1  03:07
you know, I am interested. I really think this is a great business. Have you thought about numbers? Have you thought about a timeline and just see what they say? You know, don't whoever, whoever says the the number first loses?

Speaker 2  03:19
Yeah, it's kind of like, got a negotiation, yeah, totally

Speaker 1  03:22
true, totally true. And you know that owner hasn't a number in their head, so just try, try to wait for that number to come out.

Speaker 2  03:33
Okay, got it? I know that the owner is kind of, apparently, my he's kind of like, very chill, nonchalant. He has a lot of money. He doesn't really show up there a lot. I think he's a technician there. So we'll see what happens. As far as I've been pre approved for, like, some smaller loans through couple my banks. I guess I don't know what. I don't know what he wants or so should I? I can't even start the SBA loan process, right, because I comment on the school page. I think there was an already posted an article about that, where the SBA is changing to where you have to, I guess, fund half of the 10% or something. Is that the case?

Speaker 1  04:15
Yeah, well, you're going to have to bring 10% because so the new regulations for the SBA say that if the owner brings the other 5% that they have to be on the loan. Okay, so they're got it even if so, if you, if you buy 99% of that business and the owner keeps 1% they have to be a guarantor on the loan. Oh, no, owner is going to do that. So, yeah, yeah, yeah, those SBA regulations really suck. And so what happens? What happened is the new administration just reversed everything that the old administration did, whether it was good or not. They just, they just wiped it out. And there were some bad regulations, like probably some things that were two lakhs, but there were also some good things. Is another thing that they got rid of. I found this out today or yesterday, was that the 0% down for someone that's currently an OP like works in the business that's dead too. Oh yeah, yeah. It really sucks. It's really going to hurt regular people trying to, trying to buy a business. But if you can, if you can get the 10% you're fine, okay?

Speaker 2  05:26
Because then he's not, he wouldn't be on it. Then, right? If I were to do a seller financing. So you're saying,

Speaker 1  05:31
if you do full seller financing, then you know, you're just paying to him. The SBA is not involved at all.

Speaker 2  05:37
Oh yeah, yeah. I'm saying, if I, if I'm using an SBA, I have to, I have to come up with 10% of it, yeah.

Speaker 1  05:43
And then he wouldn't just be okay, you get a check for the 100% of the sale. And then he's gone, you know, okay, long, yeah, yeah, that's, that's going to be the about the best way forward. And, okay,

Unknown Speaker  05:57
I hope they do. There's been a, yeah,

Speaker 2  06:00
how's there? Well, that, that, that all that doesn't go into effect till what next month, right? June 1. Yeah, okay. But, I mean, like, I don't have any numbers, so I can't really present. I can't even apply for it, though, correct?

Speaker 1  06:11
No, you have to have some financials to be able to, you know, really even move forward. You can get yourself, you can go to an SBA lender and get yourself kind of vetted, like your personal financial profile. Okay, that can speed it up a little bit, but, okay, but yeah, they're, they're gonna want to look at those financials before they send.

Speaker 2  06:33
They're gonna want to, they're gonna look at the sellers books, yeah, okay.

Speaker 3  06:37
They're, they're, like, the first people that you'll show that stuff too.

Unknown Speaker  06:41
That makes sense. Yeah,

Speaker 1  06:45
yeah, they should be, and really, they should be your ally in that. They'll, they'll keep you from messing up because they don't want you to default on the loan. Yeah, that's true. It's a bad deal. They're probably, they'll tell

Speaker 2  06:56
you it's a bad deal. Yeah, okay, cool. I appreciate Shane, thank you.

Speaker 1  07:07
Anybody else? Have you been looking? Been sending out feelers? Have people been responding? Have brokers been responding?

Speaker 2  07:18
No. Are there any like market Facebook pages that you guys look on as well too, or is it just primarily websites? Yeah.

Speaker 1  07:27
I mean, if you so marketplace, if you go on Facebook marketplace and join one of the groups, there are seller financing business groups. So just, just search for business, seller finance, and there, there are some that come up now, a lot of them are way too expensive, you know. But, yeah, that doesn't mean they're all going to be like that, but it just widens your network. That's a good place to look Craigslist is another one, you know. You think Craigslist is, you know, dead, but it's still around. Yeah, that's true. And people list businesses on there. I don't know why, but they do. And if you want to really network, you can use something like search funder, but it's an expensive subscription for that place. It's a website that you can you can search for deals and brokers are on there, and they send you stuff and but it's like 100 bucks a month.

Speaker 2  08:24
You said, search funder, or search fund. What was it called? Yeah, search funder. Search funder,

Unknown Speaker  08:29
interesting, okay, yeah, professionals,

Speaker 2  08:32
yeah, I found it. It's got like a green logo, or like a fox or something. Yeah, that's

Unknown Speaker  08:37
it good to know. And

Speaker 1  08:41
then, you know, there are people that are door knocking right now, you know, especially like, if you say you really want a laundromat. You know, everybody loves laundromats and car washes. Just go meet the owners, or at least the managers of everyone in your town, especially older laundromat, just go in there and see, call the number. Usually there's going to be a business card or something inside. Something inside there. If nobody's in there, maybe they want to sell. You never know. Okay, because I'm not even familiar with smog shops. We don't have smog shops, so I don't even know how that works.

Speaker 2  09:16
Yeah, I mean, it's regulated. It's regulated in California, and electric cars. I mean electric cars. The sale of electric cars are kind of decreasing out here too, I think. So I think it's one, it's one of those almost required, not required business, but it's, it's has security, and that's something I thought about before this opportunity came about as well, too, because it's just not a lot of overhead. Okay, all right.

Speaker 1  09:51
Oh, so Gina wouldn't look at the storage units. That's cool. So, um, storage units would be considered a business that's active income, so you would be able to. Because it's a business, if you own that whole place, you can also depreciate and get that on your active losses as well, because you buy it in the business name, the LLC name, so it works out the same way. And it's it's more intense management, but you should still get the same benefits from a storage unit, and that which is another reason why people love storage units. Storage units. I know I used to watch Storage Wars all the time. I used to love that show where they bid on the storage units that people abandon.

Unknown Speaker  10:38
Yeah, that was a fun show. I like,

Speaker 1  10:49
yeah, just, I don't know, just keep looking eventually, eventually it happened like, but I think, I think putting be more specific when you reach out, I'm a qualified buyer. I'm a qualified, experienced buyer, you know, looking to close sick, you know, within 90 to 180 days. I think that might help a little bit. Some brokers are going to ask, you know, everybody wants an NDA, but some brokers are going to ask for proof of funds. That is up to you. Some Well, a lot of them will send out a questionnaire, just like they sent to somebody in the community. He he reached out to me. He's like, hey, they wanted to know how much equity I have in my house. They wanted to know how much money I have in the bank. They didn't want official proof of funds, but they had this big, long form to fill out, which is fairly common as well, especially for the larger broker firms. And the reason why is because they're mining your data. So if they have another business come around, they're going to email that opportunity to you directly. So it's kind of a mixed bag, you know, and but they're not double checking those numbers. They're not asking for proof of funds from your bank. Most of the time. They're not asking for, you know, a mortgage statement and all that stuff. So, you know, you can put whatever you want to on there. When it comes right down to it, you're going to have to prove it. But if, like, if you're going to capital stack, and you know you're going to capital stack and you're going to have $50,000 in the bank. Then, you know, include the money that you are going to have when you close on the business in those financial things. You know, there's just informal questions anyway, so that'll help you slice through that broker bull crap. Anyway, so that might help. Yeah, Trans World is one of the one of the biggest brokers around, and you never know what you're going to get with trans world. You get everything from super nice people to just 100% jerks. So you just, you never know, but they have pretty intense application to fill out. No and they should not keep asking you, unless you're, like, really far out of the area to where it's a different company. But they should use the same database. I think, I think I've only, I think I've only ever filled out one of those, and they send me stuff all the time, like, oh, this, but it'll be from like, two states over, but it's kind of like similar numbers to one I inquired on similar sector, you know, that kind of stuff, but, yeah, Trans World can make things difficult,

Unknown Speaker  13:37
because they'll, usually they're going To want a proof of funds

Speaker 1  13:41
right around loi time, they might ask for that, so be prepared for that. Okay, all right. Well, I'm going to go ahead and stop this. I had some stuff I want to talk about. Talk to everybody about, anyway, um.
