Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. Tonight. It's Thursday, December 4, 2025 and we're going to be back in the business realm. We're going to talk about, I get a lot of questions, especially in lives, and I've seen a lot of bad information about which businesses require owners to be licensed. And, you know, this is kind of a generalization for most states, is what we're going to talk about. Because every state is different. You're going to find states like Mississippi that don't have very much regulation at all, whereas California, New York, you know, they might have a ton of regulation and a lot more, a lot stricter rules. However, this is a pretty like a as a as a generalized broad stroke. This is a pretty good rule of thumb, because I especially wanted to, because it irked me. I've seen this the same person on Tiktok. I don't know who he is. He's fairly new, but he was talking about someone should buy an OB, GYN business that you know in New York. Here's one for sale. You could anybody. You could buy this and make this much money. And yeah, if you're, if you're a doctor, you can, you can't own that business in you can't be majority owner in that business in New York. And so there's just so much bad information out there. I figured we hadn't, haven't actually gotten into the specifics of this topic, so I thought it would be a good chance to actually do that. So, so yeah, that's what we're gonna do. That's great, because I was wondering about a spa okay, we're actually going to talk about that. Yeah, yeah, that's, that's one of, one of the ones on here, for sure. So, so, you know, there's, there's a difference to, like, does the owner have to be licensed, or do you have to have a licensed employee that you can use to supervise and just carry that business forward? You know that that's a difference. And then there's also a third, where it doesn't matter, you know, you might not have to have any licensing it from anybody for anything, right? There's so let's, let's go through this. Here's the ones where you just rarely need a license at all, aside from, actually, you know, a business license and a permit, and your county, you know, Merchant's license, whatever you need for your little local stuff. But, you know, lawn care and landscaping, you generally don't have to have any licensing by anybody there, unless there is, you know, pesticide. If you're going to apply pesticide, most states require you to have a chemical license. Some states do for fertilizer, but for the most part, just general landscaping and lawn care, no no license, residential commercial cleaning, pretty much no licenses. When they say restoration that's for like, historic homes and things like that. So and then junk removal and Dumpster Rentals, you pretty much don't have to have one, unless there's disposal of chemicals, anything like that. You might need to pressure washing again, as long as you're following the rules with runoff. You really don't have to have a license for those either. And in auto repair shops, a lot of states don't even require the mechanics to be licensed, let alone you, unless you're going to do state license, state like motor vehicle inspections, things like that, which some shops don't even do that. And as a matter of fact, in Missouri, they just got rid of the inspections it leaves on January 1. It's no longer required. So that's, that's, yeah, which kind of shocks me, and it's kind of a bummer for my auto repair shops, because it just brings people in, but, and I think it's going to make cars less safe on the road, but you know that they finally did it so and then window and gutter cleaning again, you don't have to Have any regulation or any, any licensing and garage door services, like installing garage doors, repairing garage doors. And then also, I'm going to lump in like handyman services in that as well, as long as you're not doing heavy plumbing, heavy electric, if you're just doing like little installs of like ceiling fans and, you know, fixing, flashing on a home, things like that, that doesn't require any kind of licensing. Now, industries that allow a manager to be licensed, or an employee instead of the owner, those are the kind that I generally am looking for, and that that we talk about a lot, which is HVAC, right? You have you most of the time. One of the employees needs to be a master HVAC tech, and they'll if they need permits, they're the ones that are going to go get the permits. They're going to oversee the jobs. They're going to sign off on on anything that needs to be signed off on by an expert, that kind of stuff, plumbing as well, a master plumber. Um, is, is crucial. And I don't know of a state where you don't have to have at least, at least somebody on staff. I haven't found one yet. And like in my area, for a master plumber, they have to be with the union doing plumbing for a certain amount of time. And and then there's this whole, like, year, years long process to actually earn master plumber. So they become very valuable, master electrician for electrical and then appliance repair. But only if you're going to do refrigerant, you're going to, like, recharge freezers and refrigerators and stuff like that. If you're not going to do that, if, if it's going to be a business for like, wash washers and dryers, things like that. No, you don't have to worry about it. Okay, here's ones where the owner might need a license, but it depends again, state by state, pest control, because it's chemicals. Good. Rule of thumb is, if there's any hard chemicals it, you have to look into the regulation, you know, whether it's Freon for auto repair, or pesticide, fertilizer, any of that kind of stuff, like there's they want you to be trained in how you handle the stuff, how you dispose of it, and that kind of stuff. That's why those certifications are required, mold and water remediation. That's another one, because if you think about it, if there's mold in somebody's house and a person comes in, they don't have any kind of training whatsoever, and they're going to get rid of the mold. If they don't get it all, it puts people in an unsafe situation. Same thing with with flooding, same thing with after a fire. You generally have to have some certifications that come in and and fix fire damage as well, so that that's another one. To be a GC. You usually have to have a GC license. It depends on the state, again, but most states, you can get away with having just a GC on staff and roofing, there's, I think roofing is probably on there, because it's just dangerous. You know, that's a very dangerous job getting up on the roof and knowing what's stable and what's not stable, and fixing things that could fall on top of people. It makes sense. And Pool and Spa installation, you might have to have a GC license for that too, depending on what you're doing. If you're, you know, heavy machine operating, and, you know, concrete and design and all that kind of stuff. So any those industries right there you would want to check your state. And then here's the ones we pretty much always, as an owner, have to have a license. And you know the one I talk about all the time, which is accounting firms. I haven't found an estate yet where you can be the majority owner and accounting firm, so if you're not a CPA, so that's just obviously, because it requires a lot of training and and it makes a difference. So healthcare is another one. There's only certain healthcare businesses like medical transport, things like that, where you might not have to have a license, but nursing services, home health, any doctor's office, dentistry, all that kind of stuff. You just have to be licensed massage therapy. So some states require that the owner of a massage therapy place has to be a certified massage therapist. So that one seems a little strange to me, but I guess because you know, is it a massage parlor. Is it one of those special places? Or maybe they're afraid of people getting hurt, you know, cracking backs and things like that. I'm not sure. Child Care, obviously, because you know our it's our kids and they are, you know, want to keep our kids safe, so at least background checks and sometimes Child Welfare certifications. Some states require that you take some training with the state for a small fee just to make sure that you have, you know, I don't know what you need. And then anything that has to do with an alcohol license. You know, a permit to sell alcohol requires background checks, owner certifications, like it's it's heavily regulated. In some states, you can buy or transfer that, that license, alcohol and tobacco licenses from the previous owner. Some states, you can't, but you would have to look into that. So in my opinion, the best ones with that requires zero certification would be the landscaping. Junk Removal is a great one. Junk Removal is a business that, you know, you get one truck a trailer, and you just work hard like that. It's just, it's a great model. It's all people acquire tons of junk. You. Can get contracts with storage facilities to get rid of their junk that people, you know, leave behind. There's, there's so much opportunity there. And then auto repair, you know, I love that, because you can go in there not knowing how to fix a car and still make a great living as an owner of an auto repair shop, garage doors, simple home services, handyman services. Those are awesome. And then as far as the the ones where you have to have a licensed manager, it's the big 3h, back, plumbing and electrical. You know, those are, I've been I've been saying it for a while now. You know plumbers and electricians, right? Kids getting out of high school right now that are going to become plumbers and electricians are tomorrow's millionaires. That's just, that's where it's going. There's a shortage. It keeps getting more expensive, and it's just a great business. So how are you going to evaluate the licensing requirements beforehand? So you you can simply go to chat GPT and ask it that can be your first swath, like in Iowa, does an HVAC business owner have to have a license? Or can the manager have the license? Or, you know what's required, and then cite your sources. Is what you always tell AI, cite your sources so you can see where it got the information from, and you can go double check it to make sure it's right and read it for yourself. But that at least gets you started, and you don't have to scan through pages and pages and pages of government, you know, crap. And also, the next thing is, if it is a business that requires a license, and you're going to you're going to buy that license and depend on an employee that's already there. You need that employment contract. You don't want to buy that business. It requires licensing. The next day, that person's like, well, I'm going to leave, I'm going to this place, and then you can't even do business. That's a nightmare situation. So you want to lock that employee in, and you know, always assess like, what would happen if that person leaves? What would happen? What happens if they don't take care of their license and it expires? What happens if, you know it's not quite right, and you get violations, or, you know you need to do that research. That's part of your due diligence process. It's very important, because you could find a solid business that makes a ton of money, and you you get in there and somebody screws up a license because you didn't know you're supposed to renew it, and then you're out of business nightmare, and then you have to pay that person well, they're important. They're going to know that they're important too. So a contract and well compensated for the important role that they play. So this is just kind of, I just, I just filled in the gaps a little bit more like what you can do to to, you know, hire somebody that's qualified and has that permit, or to to keep them, you know, and just just know what they have to oversee and what they don't. You never know when, when inspectors are going to come through. Sometimes it's even just insurance inspectors can come through and they're going to ask about permits and licensing and all that kind of stuff, and they might drop you on the insurance. So that, again, is, is another nightmare situation. So, you know, you can keep them with salary bumps. You can give them like I do with the Phantom equity, where it's the 10% you know, if that's your manager, 10% of net profits, as long as they grow the business, you can do retention bonuses. There's all kinds of things you can do to make it worth that person's while. Yeah, so I think I already, already talked about this kind of got ahead of myself, but just just know that if you don't have licensed staff a lot of times, you're not going to be able to pull permits, especially with contracting, you can't pull permits and inspector comes through, they shut your job down, and all your employees are just sitting there, not working, and you're paying them terrible. So I guess one of the options is you could possibly get certified yourself for some of the easier ones, some of them, I know, like the pesticide. If you want to be in landscaping and lawn care, that pesticide one, you pay like, 300 bucks, you take a little class, you take a test. It's very simple, and a lot of those are like that. So if you're okay with, you know, getting a manual and learning some stuff and taking an online test, or going to a test site, that's cool, but some of them are, are in depth. My my wife, just went through car dealer licensing, and it's, it's a huge booklet of stuff that you have to know. And it was like, it was pretty involved. So but. You know, it just depends on what you're into and what you're willing to do to get those licenses. But that's pretty much it. I just wanted to just just know if it's chemicals, if it's health care, if it's children, if it's something that could be potentially dangerous, most of the time those industries require licensing, and heavy licensing and and often by the owner themselves. And then I'll include also anything tax related, legal related, you know, with the law, all that stuff. And for good reason, because it's not, you know, you can't just be a lawyer for somebody, right? For good reason.

Unknown Speaker  15:41
So, does anybody have any questions on that?

Unknown Speaker  15:51
Nothing? Are you sure?

Speaker 1  16:02
Okay? But I wanted to get this in there. So George, I got

Speaker 2  16:06
one really quick. So I know with some companies like general contracting, at least in Florida, you can get a license with like, three years experience, and then one year as a foreman, like, let's say you have that 10% to the contractor, licensing the business at that time, if you are, you able to, like, hire yourself in those roles, so you can eventually get the license yourself.

Speaker 1  16:32
Well, you can, but most of the time you have to, even if you're going to have, like, say, for instance, it's, it's a, you have an employee that's a that is licensed as a contractor, right? You can't, most of the time, have them as a 1099, employee. You have to have them as a w2 or salary, you know, salaried employee to actually be on your payroll. So you would have to do the same thing with yourself. You'd have to be salaried. You could, you probably couldn't just do owner draws. You need to be, you know, related to that business. That'd be my guess there. Because if you can't, if you can't hire a contractor to fill that role for you in most states, then you probably, yeah, you're probably going to have to have W twos to show I've been at this business for this long, and then you can get that experience yourself.

Unknown Speaker  17:27
Got you? Okay, it's a good question.

Speaker 1  17:37
Okay, all right, go ahead and pause this.
