Unknown Speaker  00:01
Hey everybody. So what I want to do right now is I just want to

Unknown Speaker  00:05
analyze a few businesses live

Speaker 1  00:10
just see what's out there. Somebody said, Hey, let's look at Texas. So I'll go ahead and and just just run through that, and I'll share my screen, and we can just kind of get into, let's see if we can find a good one. I'm pretty jazzed up because in one of my posts, I found a good one for somebody. And they're actually going to, they're on due diligence right now, and they're going to, they're probably going to, you know, purchase this, this business. And I just happened to look in Illinois just to see what was going on. So we're on biz by sale, easiest one to use. I hope everybody can can see it okay and read what's going on the screen. So I just picked Texas, the industries I have in there for right now, our service, building and construction on moving and boat. Those are kind of the ones where you can find the recession resistant businesses. The other filters that I'm choosing, or I'm going to hide, the ones that don't have a price that doesn't make any sense. We could try must allow absentee owner just to see how that goes, because I don't want to buy a business now, that's my excuse me. I don't want to buy a job. That is my goal. But that doesn't mean it's everybody's goal. So a lot of times I won't look at actually, I'm not going to look at that for right now. Just maybe you're just tired of your job. You want a different one, but you want to get paid. So we can find those opportunities too. Everybody's goals are different, and I try to, you know, broaden everything so we can get what you need for everybody in this community. So, so let's just look. Let's see what we have here.

Unknown Speaker  01:57
Koala insulation. Wow.

Speaker 1  02:02
$228,000 cash flow. Can buy it for 150 now. It is a franchise, though

Unknown Speaker  02:11
it's only been around for five years.

Speaker 1  02:15
You know, in the ground floor, that's always that means that they haven't done anything. So two employees, family situation change, that means that probably a divorce. The two employees, though, that's that's no good. I wouldn't, I wouldn't look at that one further. Okay, let's keep going. Specialty auto repair parts. Sorry, that was my robot vacuum just started going crazy. Specialty auto repair parts and center cash flow. You can already tell that's not gonna be good. It does have real estate, but still, let's see

Unknown Speaker  03:03
it's another insulation

Speaker 1  03:06
Dallas Construction specialty insulation, hardware, lumber center 30 year drywall contractor, uh,

Unknown Speaker  03:24
let's look at this one right here.

Speaker 1  03:31
Okay, what I don't like about it is it's Trans World. I've dealt with that broker company a few times, and you never know what you're going to get. Sometimes you get a good broker. Sometimes you get a turd. So it just depends. Okay, so they want 304 cash flows. 141, it's really good. This no good. Why would they sell it? If, if they just started it in 2023, other business interests. That means this is a piece of crap. Turn the other direction and run as fast as you can.

Unknown Speaker  04:10
Yeah, no way. There's something wrong with it.

Unknown Speaker  04:14
Let's try to find a different one.

Speaker 1  04:18
Here's another insulation repair with the cash flow is inverted, hmm,

Unknown Speaker  04:26
doesn't say When it's established.

Unknown Speaker  04:38
Doesn't give you any information. Okay, there's a car wash.

Unknown Speaker  04:47
It's pretty expensive, though.

Unknown Speaker  04:52
Oh, here's one with an auction, nine days

Unknown Speaker  04:58
retail with Billboard. Income

Speaker 1  05:03
critical, industrial solutions, whatever that means. There's another spray phone. This one's in Austin. Okay, this is a little better cash flows, 463,

Unknown Speaker  05:20
asking price, seven, establishing, 2012

Speaker 1  05:25
This is, yeah, this is, this is a much better business. Okay, let's see five employees financing possible with third party funding. Okay, it includes a big box truck and then another truck. You have to check out the condition, and, you know, looks like it's included in it, but you'd have to check all that stuff out, because if you have to buy a brand new, you know, 750 box truck, that is going to be pretty expensive, but this looks pretty good at a glance. So let's, let's go ahead and analyze this. Let's throw it in the numbers. So let me pull this over here

Unknown Speaker  06:10
and see what we got. So we've got

Unknown Speaker  06:13
asking price, 700,000

Speaker 1  06:21
okay. We have cash flow. 463,

Unknown Speaker  06:32
that's really good.

Unknown Speaker  06:35
Gross revenue, three, 3,467,000 1000

Speaker 1  06:50
doesn't say FF and E, that's fine. We'll just put it at zero. Inventory zero. That doesn't matter. Okay. So if we look at this and we think, okay, there's no real estate involved, this is going to be a 10 year note. Actually, interest rates are kind of down. It was 10 to 13% they've since come down a little bit. So you're looking at like nine and a half to 12 and a half. That helps. It's called us right in the middle

Unknown Speaker  07:25
11, just to be sure.

Unknown Speaker  07:30
Okay, the down payment, if

Speaker 1  07:33
it's, let's say 70,000 is what we're going to do. We're going to do 10% okay, so 77,000 because you're gonna have to pay your closing costs and all that stuff, right? You have to factor that in, you know? You're gonna have to bring closing costs to the table. Okay, so looking at this, this means that after you service the debt, it's still going to bring you almost $350,000 the DSCR is a four. Which DSCR is the debt service coverage ratio the banks are looking for a 1.25 this is a four. So this could definitely be a good deal. I mean, so if you think about it, your your down payment was, you know, 77,000 you pay yourself back. Let's see, how much would that be? Let's, let's get the calculator over here. Okay, so if you're after, you're paying for the debt. So you get 348, 447, minus 77,000 that's after you pay yourself back. That means the very first year your take home. You know cash flow is 271, after you pay yourself back. That's the first year, if you wanted to, you could put all the money back into this and pay down that debt and have it paid off in two years. Otherwise, you could just sit back and just collect your 350 G's every year, and that was for a $77,000 investment. That's what I'm talking about right there. So this stuff is totally real. What we sat here for, I don't know, 1015, minutes, and found this insulation company. You don't have to know about insulation. You just have to know that there should be some experts in these five people, and that's would be part of your due diligence. So you you would reach out to this broker and say, you know John Smith, and here's my email address. I'm looking to purchase this business, possibly in the next 90 to 180 days. Blah, blah, blah. And just. See if they get back to you. If they do, you would want the last three years of tax returns, last three years of profit and loss statements, the year to date, and you start from there and just verify that the numbers here, like this, cash flow, are reflected in the tax returns. They're reflected in the P and L statements. This isn't just exaggeration and stuff like that. So if that's the case, then you can move forward. So you will be dealing with this guy. Looks like he's got his own broker business. It could be good or bad, but yeah, I mean, this could be the one that changes somebody's life, if you're in Texas. So yeah, and then you also want to find out why they're selling. It's been around for 13 years, so that could go either way. It could be an illness, it could be a retirement, could be a lot of things, but you would have to find that out, and you have to find out what they mean by third party funding available, but there are a lot of green flags on this one. So yeah, there you go. This would be one to look for, and you're looking for things like this in your area.

Unknown Speaker  11:15
So yeah, there you go.

Speaker 1  11:18
So I'm going to go ahead and stop the share here and get this one in the community, and then we can open up, you know, a little bit of question and answer. Maybe we can, if you have a business that you want me to go over, we can do that. There's a lot of stuff we can do. All right, I'm.
