Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're going to start the mentorship portion. It's September 18, 2025 we were just asked a question about, after you analyze the financial statements, do you still need an accountant to look at it? So the process that we were discussing is, you know, you find a listing, you like the numbers in the listing, you get all you reach out to the broker or the owner, and you get all the financials. You're getting three years of profit and loss statements. You're getting three years of tax returns, and you're getting the year to date statement, the year to date statement just being basically the profit and loss for the current year. Because you want to see trends, you want to see all that stuff in numbers. But Your first step is you're taking the numbers from the listing and verifying those against the profit and loss statement, the most recent one or the most recent three, whatever you want to see what, where they got their numbers from, and generally, that's where they're going to come from. And then you're going to compare the profit and loss statement numbers to the tax returns to make sure that what they reported to the government is the same thing that what they're trying to tell you is they earned and or lost. And so you go through all of that, and once, once you're satisfied that those numbers work, maybe you you go under, you know, you submit an LOI. It's accepted. You're in due diligence. You're looking at at the bank statements. You're looking at everything at this point, you're, you know, lifting up the veil, looking under all the rugs, turning over every rock, talking to the employees, looking at Google reviews, you're doing everything you can to get a sense of that business. You even come in, you can come in as a customer and go through the process of the business, whatever, so many different things you can do to get a sense of whether that business is a good deal, whether those red flags, you know, that's that's a whole separate class. But then, so say you, you go through all of that stuff, and you're like, Okay, I think this is a good deal. I don't see any red flags. I look through all the financials, it seems to work for me. That's when, at that point, I switch over, and I give all those financials to a business accountant that understands acquisition. And I'll say, hey, look for any red flags in the financials. Look for anything that you see that looks a little screwy or or just doesn't match with real world expectations, or, you know, real numbers. And then I want you to do a pro forma. For me, a pro forma is a prediction of what the company, what the business, will do in the next year. So what the accountant will do is take the current numbers and the trend of those numbers and then predict what they think next year will look like based solely on the numbers and the state of the economy, the trend of the business and everything, they'll put a little bit of growth, they'll they'll account for inflation, they'll account for taxes, they'll account for all that stuff, and they'll give it to you, and they'll say, Okay, here's what I think your cash flow will be year one. And then if that meets what you are kind of thinking that's going to be then you've had a professional who knows the ins and outs of everything, taxes and, you know, just financial statements in general. And it's just like a second set of eyes to make sure you don't miss anything. Because there's a lot of moving pieces, there's a lot of accounting tricks, there's a lot of things that if you if you're not really familiar, then you know you can, you can stub your toe pretty hard. Even now, after you know all the financials I've looked at and all the deals I've been involved in, I still I like the reassurance of having an accountant look over it. And then also at this point, once the accountant looks over and says, yeah, here's the numbers, I think it's a good deal. I think you'll make this much year one, then I'll have an attorney and look into the business to make sure that they don't have any debt that I don't know about, they don't have outstanding lawsuits, they don't have any tax burden that is unpaid, that might, you know, rear its head in a year, or something like that. And, you know, they'll draft a purchase agreement or look over the purchase agreement that we already have been kicking around back and forth. But, yeah, I always want those two professionals that's like my last stage before, actually, you know, sign the papers and buy the business. Chat.

Speaker 2  04:46
GPT, what's that? Have you ever tried to run your financial through? Chat?

Speaker 1  04:51
GPT, yeah, it'll give you a pretty good rundown, but you don't get the um. The more you don't get the personal element of it, where you can say, you know, because maybe you were looking at at some numbers, and there is, there are some add backs that you don't understand, like, maybe they have a vehicle, or maybe they have this and that you can specifically ask about those things and see what that is, and they'll oftentimes give you a list of questions to ask the either the businesses bookkeeper or the owner itself, like, Hey, what's this? Why is this this much? Where'd this money go? What was this debt payment for? But yeah, chat GBT can help it. Definitely can.

Speaker 2  05:37
Have you ever encountered a business with an ongoing lawsuit, and how did you deal with it?

Unknown Speaker  05:42
If you did, uh, no, I haven't.

Speaker 1  05:46
Um, so I always have them look, I think if I, if I encountered one that had, like, a pretty gnarly lawsuit, I would not, I would not pursue the deal. Because even though you, you know, if you buy it as an asset sale and you put, and you know, an indemnity clause into the purchase agreement, there are still so many ways that a creative attorney can still try to attach it to you, and then you just have, if it's some kind of a big lawsuit that might have publicity behind it, last thing you want is that attached to a fresh business that you just bought and have nothing to do with all that baggage. So I would probably, yeah, I would not pursue the deal. Okay?

Speaker 2  06:29
So any deal with the lawsuit you will not pursue, like at all.

Speaker 1  06:33
No, I don't think I would. There's too many other opportunities out there. I would want them to resolve that stuff first. And if they know there's a pending lawsuit and they're selling, that's a red flag in and of itself. Any any smart business owner is going to take care of all that stuff before they list their business for sale, unless they're trying to just give someone else a live grenade and hope it doesn't blow up before they hand it off to someone else. No, that's crazy. Yeah, it's just like a car, right? So many times people, you know, they hear a noise in their car, or they take it to a garage and they say, Hey, you know, your transmissions about to go out. You maybe have 1000 miles left. Well, what do they do? They go home and list it on Facebook marketplace and try to sell it to somebody else.

Unknown Speaker  07:22
I had a car like that before, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:26
everything out of me, just a

Speaker 1  07:33
point like a pointer for buying a car. If you're buying a used car from someone you don't know, take it to a garage and ask for a pre buying a pre purchase inspection, have them go through it for you, cost like, 150 bucks, and I would rather get the reassurance of a qualified mechanic looking through everything and, you know, not finding something wrong, as opposed to buying something that's gonna just completely fall apart in a couple weeks.

Speaker 2  07:58
Yeah, I didn't do that again. Yeah. I was like, Yeah, I'm not going through that again. That was crazy. That was the worst year of my life.

Unknown Speaker  08:07
Yeah, I see it all the time.

Unknown Speaker  08:10
So yeah, I definitely know not to do it with a business

Speaker 1  08:14
then, yeah, that's a great question. I mean, a lot of people think, you know, even, like, since I've been involved in these acquisitions, like, I don't need to, you know, pay for an attorney and pay for an accountant to look over this stuff, but I'd rather, I'd rather pay money that I didn't necessarily have to, just for the peace of mind, because there's a lot of things that can go wrong. We all make mistakes. Chat. GPT makes mistakes. I just, I don't know the first person that's going to look the numbers for you, though, when you get those financials is going to be your lender. Your lender is going to be the very first second set of eyes that goes on the financials because that they want to see them before they're going to be willing to give you the loan for it. So whether it's SBA or local lender or whatever, you know they're not going to do due diligence, but they're just going to want, they were going to want to look at the financials. And they've looked at hundreds of financials, if they're a good lender, and they can also help you see some red flags that you might not see, and tell you, like, hey, yeah, this is probably a good deal. They're going to do a lot of what we just did. If you, if you use that analyzing tool, and you talk to a lender about the DSCR being this number, you know, and that you think you could pay it back in this many years, like you're doing much better than most people, especially first time buyers, that are going to try to buy a business, because most people don't even know what DSCR is, unless you're in real estate or really up on this stuff. It's just not a term that you commonly hear. Okay?

Speaker 2  09:55
And I had a question about employees, like, when you're paying them, how do you decide? On how much money you want to pay your employees?

Speaker 1  10:03
Well, if you're buying a business that already has employees, I'm going to pay them the exact same rate that they were paid before, at least to begin with.

Speaker 2  10:11
So do you ever, like, go up on the pay like, you know, like, how jobs they go up every year?

Speaker 1  10:16
Well, yeah, you know I want, I want all salary increases, wage increases to be performance based. I don't like systems where it's you've been here for five years, you automatically get a raise. I think they should be contributing more the longer they've been there. And but it should be well defined and and fair. So you know, if they do this, they get more money. That's why I like bonuses almost more than base salary increases. Performance bonuses work great. You know, even if it's like, you get this bonus, I'll pay for some training, and if you complete the training, I'll give you a $500 bonus, because they're going to get that training, they're going to bring those skills back to the business, and whether it's dealing with customers or being able to, you know, bring whatever skill to the business, it's going to improve your your bottom line. And that's, that's what you want, right? You want their goals aligned with your goals?

Speaker 2  11:18
Yeah, I don't. I think about it all the time, because I don't want to be a shitty boss, like at all. And I definitely don't want to be the boss that, Oh, you guys doing a good job. Gonna throw you a pizza party. Like, I feel like that's so why?

Speaker 1  11:30
Yeah, yeah. It's almost a joke in in small business, like, that pizza party thing, yeah?

Speaker 2  11:37
Like, oh my gosh. And I would hate to be that kind of boss. Oh, you guys, it's so good. I'm gonna throw you guys a pizza party, like, because I hate when we get it, because it'd be like, okay, like, what's next?

Speaker 1  11:49
You're better off to, like, barbecue for everybody and go somewhere, you know, yeah, like, little caesars for lunch one day. Nobody gives a shit about that,

Unknown Speaker  12:00
right? I don't even like pizza, so, yeah,

Speaker 1  12:05
yeah, definitely bonuses are better, even if you get, like, everybody some swag for the business, like giveaway, give everybody T shirts and that kind of stuff like it, that's better than pizza. Yeah, I

Speaker 2  12:18
think a bonus is better than pizza and giveaway, honestly, but I think that would be nice too. Like, monthly giveaways, like, probably, like, with gift cards and stuff. I feel like that's nice too.

Speaker 1  12:29
Yeah, a lot of businesses do that to, you know, keep morale going. I'd rather incentivize training, incentivize like, so, so say I have somebody I don't know. They're, they're, you know, the ones that are answering the phone for potential new clients. I would rather give them bonuses for reaching out to old clients that maybe have, you know, haven't talked to in a while, to bring them back into the fold and say, okay, for every every old client that you bring back and sign them up to for services, it's $100 bonus. So they'll be doing their regular job answering phones, but in between calls, they're reaching out cold, calling old clients, right? Because it's worth it to them. They're going to put more effort into it, and it's worth it to me, because, you know, we're increasing customers, and it's all about customer acquisition. I don't care what business that's one of the most difficult things to do in any business is get new customers or even bring back old customers.

Unknown Speaker  13:40
Patience. Are you around?

Speaker 1  13:47
Is patience? Put a business in the community earlier, it was a nail salon, and I wanted to kind of look at it.

Speaker 3  13:59
Were you asking if I was around? Yes, oh, Lord, I've been missing in ash Shane, yeah, I just came back in. I went to my son's sport, and then my phone died, and then I was talking to the coach, and then I just got back in, and actually, literally, just got back into the house. Yeah, I just got back in. Thank you.

Speaker 1  14:19
Yeah, no problem. I just figured, I know you posted a business in in the community, and I thought we would go over it. So let's check it out. So this is a, this is a nail salon in in Illinois. It's in Cook County. I like nail salons. I think, I think, you know, women that get their nails done still get it done, even when the economy turns down, it's it tends to be pretty recession resistant, and it's recurring revenue. I know that my wife goes to the same place all the time to get her nails done. She doesn't go anywhere else. So you got that recurring revenue. So let's look at this one in particular. Well, definitely the. Multiple from cash flow to asking price is great, right? That's that's really good. Established, 2009

Unknown Speaker  15:12
absentee owner, opportunity,

Unknown Speaker  15:19
yep, over 100,000 in profit.

Speaker 1  15:28
Consistent customer flow. Space is modern. It looks good. If this is an actual, you know looks like, yeah, it looks like a modernized place. It's not all run down. It's got some storage, a little break room, decent size, okay,

Unknown Speaker  15:53
strong management and staff in place,

Speaker 1  15:58
established customers, good location, 10,000 in inventory, 30,000 in FF and E. You get three weeks of training. The reason for selling is a health issue. Okay? So it doesn't say how many employees. That's the only thing. So it's probably it says absentee owner opportunity, but it does have management. So let's plug this into the analyzer and see what we got. But I can already tell you it's going to be, it's going to be really good. So asking price, and it's cheap, it's 180

Unknown Speaker  16:42
What's that 145 cash flow.

Speaker 1  16:48
That multiple 1.2 it's nice. Gross revenue. 295, seems about right. FF and E, I think was 10,000 right? 30,000 Okay, inventory is included. So, you know, let's put the inventory in there an extra 5%

Unknown Speaker  17:19
for working capital. So,

Unknown Speaker  17:24
yeah, the closing costs are not going to be that much.

Speaker 1  17:28
So you would be bringing 9630 as a down payment. Now just know that, because this is less than 350 some lenders are going to want more than a 10% down payment. Just, just know that going in, you might have to bring more like, you know, 20% which is going to be what 20% of of 180 is what 36 oh, this is needs to be 10. So 19 would be your down payment if you use 10% 20% 38 so you're probably not going to be able to get this with a 10% down payment, because it's so cheap, that's not a not a guaranteed statement that you can't but it might okay. So you bring 19,000 so less than 20 grand, 10 years at 10% the DSCR 5.27 that's fantastic. After paying the debt, your cash flow positive for the first year at 117 so you pay yourself back that 20,000 you're still at about 90,000 for the first year, and then after that, you're making 117 a year. This thing would pay itself off completely in less than two years.

Unknown Speaker  18:57
That's pretty Yeah,

Speaker 3  19:01
you're not sharing your screen. Is it just me or Oh, it's not, no, not to me. Oh, you know what, I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  19:13
My tech, my tech savvy baby, can you

Speaker 1  19:18
everybody is Can everybody else see my screen? Yes, okay, but yeah, so, so when you plug this in, it's a very good deal. Just know that that you're probably not going to be able to put 18, 18,000 down and get this business. You're probably going to have to bring more like, you know, 36

Unknown Speaker  19:41
20% likely.

Unknown Speaker  19:44
So it's just because of the the

Unknown Speaker  19:47
asking price correct. And

Speaker 3  19:50
did you see the portion that said you have to bring no that the 10,000

Unknown Speaker  19:58
inventory was not in 10. Included.

Unknown Speaker  20:02
And I kind of found that dad, like I did not see that

Speaker 3  20:05
exactly was 10,000 I mean, I know it's a big nail salon, but I know how much they sell those things, I know that's up to 10,000 and they said it wasn't included, right?

Speaker 1  20:17
So when you, when you put the inventory in like that. So you just know that you're going to have to, you could probably sell or finance that inventory. That's why a lot of I don't include this necessarily into, you

Unknown Speaker  20:33
know the calculations here.

Speaker 1  20:37
You know it is included by default, but you don't always have to. I so if you put that in 10,000 it brings your DSCR down. But inventory is probably the the most often seller financed, but you can add it to the loan itself. So that's what the the analyzer does, is just adds it to the loan, okay? But, I mean, that's about right, right? Because that's going to be like hair dye. It's going to be, I don't know, shampoos, whatever that they sell in the shop. You know, you're going to need that stuff day one.

Unknown Speaker  21:27
Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  21:34
But I would say, you know, if you're interested in this type of business, and it's close to you, and yeah, this looks like a good one. Patience. It does.

Unknown Speaker  21:44
Thank you. Shane accepted.

Unknown Speaker  21:50
I haven't reached out. And,

Unknown Speaker  21:55
yeah, I have not reached out.

Speaker 3  21:59
Okay, I will Richard and see my girls. Yeah, why not anybody else have one? So the employee here is not factored in at this point. Um, usually, like they

Speaker 1  22:21
have, it doesn't say how many employees, so you'd have to find that out.

Unknown Speaker  22:27
Strong management.

Speaker 1  22:30
So if the manager is managing every you know, day to day, that's great, but if the owner is there all the time really doing the managing, then you're going to have to think, you know, that's going to cut into your cash flow, because you're going to have to have to either hire someone else or you're going to have to promote someone to be there all the time.

Speaker 3  22:51
Yeah, I think that they kind of, they kind of mentioned that in the listing that absentee there was, like, a little discrepancy between the cash flow with absentee and with being hands on. I think I thought that that too.

Speaker 1  23:17
Okay, yeah, you just have to get more information and see. I mean, right now it's a smoking deal. Really is

Unknown Speaker  23:26
okay? Okay, thank you, Keith,

Speaker 1  23:29
did you want me to look at the smog place?

Speaker 4  23:32
Yeah, it's biz by sell. It's just a Facebook marketplace listing, but I sent it to you.

Speaker 1  23:38
Gotcha? Okay? So here is the small place. It's got a little video, so

Unknown Speaker  23:49
kind of like a single,

Unknown Speaker  24:02
okay? It's like one bay.

Speaker 1  24:10
Well, cap, see, I don't know much about the smog industry, because it's not something we don't even have to get a missions test in my state. Yeah. So it's, it's something that's kind of kind of foreign to me, but so it just looks like a single little place

Unknown Speaker  24:27
has the other's in office too. Okay?

Speaker 4  24:32
She they, I've been speaking with the owner. I'm gonna go there morning tomorrow to look at it in person, bringing a mechanic as well, too, who's somewhat familiar with smog, because they've had a smog shop at their location. So the pros and cons? I mean, the positive is price, very, very low. Smog shop county are over $100,000 the issue is that there, despite what they say, they don't have a STAR certification. So I would either need to get it myself, which I if I buy this, I probably would, but the interim, I would hire a smog certified technician, which would cost a little bit more. The reason they're selling it is because the business has been in business for 10 years. They took it over. May they're selling, they say, because they have another smog shop, but it's like 100 miles away. It's in it's in the bar still, which is very far away, and they just don't have the time to run it. So their hours limited. They're only looking between two and seven, instead of opening up at like eight or nine o'clock and and doing a full hour a day as well, too. So there's upside there. She didn't tell me. The owner's wife didn't tell me if it's net or gross. She said, currently the income is even 4000 $6,000 and the rent is 1650 which actually isn't bad. And I can, whoever takes it over can agree to that for a minimum of three years. So that's actually very good for Orange County.

Speaker 1  25:55
Well, I mean, in for such a low asking price, I mean, are they advertising at all? You know, there's so much potential there.

Speaker 4  26:05
Yeah, they have a website. I don't know if they do a lot of social media, though I can, I can double check on that, but they have a website. It doesn't, if I go to the website, doesn't look like they have their social media links. So I think there's upside. There's a Facebook thing. I mean, I still think there's a big upside, especially, and it's down actually, too. They don't have a Facebook page. There's upside. I increase the hours. I obviously the higher tech and the intern. I would probably take me three to six months to get the shop smock certified, and then I could just hire on a non STAR Certified tech could save me some money. Yeah. I mean, it's a very good price, but, and apparently all the equipment's good to go. I have a checklist of things to bring, like, to ask him for tomorrow, and then I guess I can go ahead and I'll see if I can get, like, at least. I'll look he said. He said his finances are, like, physical so I have to look at their tax returns as well too, to see if the panels match the tax returns.

Speaker 1  27:05
Okay, yeah. I mean, it's hard to, I don't know. It's just, it just depends on what. I know people want to start off pretty small, but you got to think about the time you're going to invest in this for the potential return. Yeah, right. So, yeah, the barrier to entry is very small, because you could probably finance this yourself. Have to get a loan or anything, you know, if nothing else, you could definitely capital stack and buy it. Then you you got to hire someone, or you have to spend the time to be that certified tech, and if it does make 4000 a month, but you have to devote quite a bit of time to it, is it worth it? So you just, you know, those are questions that you have to ask yourself, like, what's the upside here? Can I fully automate it, or is this something that I'm going to have to deal with quite a bit, and I'm only going to get 4000 a month? Yeah?

Speaker 4  28:10
Yeah. I mean, in your opinion, what is will be good, like ROI on it? Then what do you think? Well, I mean,

Speaker 1  28:20
time invested. It just depends on, you know, how far is it away from your house?

Speaker 4  28:28
It's depending where it's far from my house, it's like 90 miles away. But I have another property probably a half an hour away from it, that I can stay at in the intern where I build it if I need to. Okay.

Speaker 1  28:42
And you know, it's limited to but so how long does it take to do a smog check? Generally, like when you go to a place, do they have to run for a certain amount

Speaker 4  28:51
of time? I think 30 minutes, 30 to 60 minutes check

Speaker 1  28:55
actually, okay, so you're talking about 10 cars max per day in this place,

Speaker 4  29:02
they told me they do, let me see 20 to 30 minutes they have to double check. But they told me they do about an average of 50 cars a month,

Unknown Speaker  29:11
50 cars a month a

Unknown Speaker  29:13
day, a day. I have that with them, though. Okay.

Speaker 1  29:17
Well, 50 cars a day is a different situation. So that's not too Okay, so it must not take that long to to analyze it. But no, yeah, I don't know if you just think that you're going to have to drive up there all the time for at most 4000 a month. You know, you just have to ask yourself those questions, is it worth it? Or would you rather buy a business for more money, put the same amount of effort and time, but the upside is 15,000 a month. Yeah, that's true. That's that's just what you have to you know, you have to ask yourself and see, but it would be a great learning experience. It has potential to make some. Good absentee money, but there's going to be a lot of upfront, you know, getting it set up, finding that right certified technician that you can trust that's not going to be, you know, because you're talking about a stranger that's going to be by himself or him or herself in that business, working all day, possibly dealing with cash and whatever. You know, it's hard to find people you can trust. Yeah? So, yeah, that's, that's the downfall of the really small businesses. Oh, yeah, that's true, yeah. But it's still, you know, if it's something you're interested in, it might be like one of many, you know, you start off with this location, you get a streamlined model, and you branch out to another one and another one and another one. And before you know it, you've got 1520, of these things that's possible too, yeah. Then, then you're talking about, you know, 80,000 a month.

Speaker 4  31:00
Yeah, yeah, that's what that's thinking in terms of shop just starting somewhere and then building from there, creating some kind of model. But you make a good point. I mean, if it's gonna, if I have to drive up there constantly, multiple times a week for a long time, for $4,000 a month, I don't think it's worth it. So I'll just, you know, really look at their books tomorrow and see what you know, if it makes sense or not.

Unknown Speaker  31:24
Yeah, yeah, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  31:27
Okay, cool. Thank you. Well,

Speaker 1  31:30
I like the stuff that we've looked at tonight. We went all the way from really expensive businesses in the class to, you know, $25,000 business in several shades in between. It's cool. Anybody else got one or got any news or questions?

Speaker 5  31:52
I put one into the the chat that I've been I looked into it already. Apparently it's one's already offered.

Speaker 1  32:01
Oh, it's somebody's already jumped on it. They haven't changed the status, but the broker said they have an offer.

Speaker 5  32:11
Yeah, and then that leads to another question. I mean, this also is established, you know, not too long ago, but seems like something more in my, my area of of of interest and experience, but, yeah, so say, you know, they're, they already had an offer. You know, I don't know if it was accepted. I imagine it was accepted, but you know how quickly, if I had to jump on it, you know, to go to a lender like is, is that something that can happen really quickly, or it's like, yeah, there's no way, like, I could, you know,

Unknown Speaker  32:49
make another offer

Speaker 5  32:52
without, you know, all cash down, or something, okay?

Speaker 1  32:57
I mean, yeah, it is, it is fairly new. But I think, I think this, this would scare me a little bit, right? They have an exclusive contract. How long is that contract? It doesn't say, Are you, are we 100% sure that it's going to convey? Because they don't always convey, you would have to have an attorney look at that to make sure. So you know, because if the contract is up in six months and you have to renegotiate a new one, and you can't get the same kind of deal, maybe that cash flow jumps down to 60, because this is a really good deal. Just at first glance, looks like a great deal. Yeti love Yeti stuff.

Unknown Speaker  33:45
Great name brand

Unknown Speaker  33:50
dog products. That's great too.

Unknown Speaker  33:56
Okay, so it's an FBA, right?

Speaker 1  34:01
So, Amazon FBA has a 95% failure rate, I don't know if you know that, so that there's certain things that can happen with Amazon FBA businesses that are out of your control. So say you've got all these products you know under your brand listed on Amazon. Amazon's fulfilling it, and you get a couple of really bad reviews. They might not even be legitimate reviews. They could come from a competitor that's just a nasty person and not playing fair. And if they say certain key things on those reviews, Amazon can pull you. They don't have to say why? They don't have to let you back on. They can just decimate your business. That happens quite often with FBA. You know, Amazon can is big enough and powerful enough that it could pretty much do whatever it wants. Now, I'm not saying that's going to happen, because this has been around for four years, so that's pretty good for an FBA, but. It is a risk

Unknown Speaker  35:05
fully online.

Unknown Speaker  35:13
Reason for selling transitioning to real estate.

Speaker 1  35:18
Okay, so if they're transitioning to real estate, why wouldn't they just keep this business? You know, if it's passive, they don't have to keep the inventory they have an exclusive contract with Yeti that's cheaper than anyone else can get. Why wouldn't you just continue to do that? Because it takes very little overhead. So why not just go ahead and still make that money? And you know, there's plenty of ways to finance real estate. I you know, if they're saying they want to get $145,000 to invest as a down payment real estate, I don't know. It seems a little fishy.

Unknown Speaker  36:02
So there are some red flags.

Unknown Speaker  36:05
Okay, appreciate it. Yeah, no problem.

Speaker 1  36:07
But I mean, it could be, it could be decent. I just personally, I wouldn't, I wouldn't want to be in it, Amazon, FBA, but is it only Amazon? I think that's all it said, because you can sell this stuff on Etsy, on Shopify, on eBay, there's a lot of other places you can sell to to mitigate your risk,

Unknown Speaker  36:34
but all it really says is, Amazon. Do

Unknown Speaker  36:42
you guys hear the thunder?

Unknown Speaker  36:46
No, I didn't hear anything.

Speaker 1  36:48
It's like, yeah, it's gone. I gotta get a microphone, I guess. Okay, but yeah, that would be my concern there, Aaron, just, just be careful with that one. You know, if you if maybe that deal falls through, you know, look over that contract, that that pricing contract, take it to an attorney, make sure that that's conveyable, how what the term is, what the renegotiation is at the end of that term, like what the process is to see if you can still get, you know, if you still have any power to negotiate, that might be an introductory offer only, and they're going to up the prices so, but yeah, it could or could not be. Could go either way. You still need more info.

Unknown Speaker  37:47
Sounds good. Thank you. All

Speaker 1  37:54
right, what you guys got? Brooke, anything on the coffee shop?

Speaker 6  38:03
I know I still never heard back from that broker,

Unknown Speaker  38:10
so I think I'm just gonna pass on that.

Speaker 1  38:14
Yeah, it seems kind of weird. They might have a buyer on the hook already because they're lazy and they don't change these listings to Pending because they still want to. They want people to reach out so they can get your information and that they have another business they can reach out to you later. That's why they don't change it to Pending.

Speaker 6  38:36
Yeah, and I think I told you last week, I looked at her listings, and she has like, five or six of them for sale, like, within a 200 mile radius of me. So I was kind of, I don't know, saw that as a red flag too, yeah, because I wasn't crazy that it was a franchise to begin with. Yeah, right. I'm also just finding people, mainly franchises, that are now listing like they're hiding that it's a franchise, and they're like, listing as like it as it looks like a legitimate business, like they'll say 37 years, you know, old and, like, you go through all this stuff, and then you submit your info, and then it's like, oh, well, yeah, we're trying to start a franchise in your area.

Speaker 1  39:33
Yep, yeah. And you oftentimes, they'll have, like, if it, if it is a franchise, they'll have the cash flow from the most profitable branch and the asking price from the cheapest branch. Yes, yes, not lying. This is the potential of what you could pay for one this is the potential of what one could bring in. But it's shady.

Speaker 6  39:59
Yes. I'm, like, starting to hate franchises, like, I don't want to support them at all.

Speaker 1  40:04
I don't think they're all bad. Matter of fact, I don't know if you saw what Wally put in the community. Did you see that post? No, so, okay, let me share my screen. Um, right here. Wally posted this. You can go to this franchise exchange and analyze and look at it's you make a free account, and just look at franchise fees, and you know what to look for, how to analyze a good franchise versus a bad franchise. Look at litigations, lawsuits, just a whole bunch of stuff if you're considering a franchise, but it's a good tool,

Speaker 6  40:57
okay, yeah, it's definitely my last resort, but um, that I didn't know that existed. So, yeah, I'll definitely take a look at that.

Unknown Speaker  41:08
Okay, yeah, thanks to Wally for that.

Unknown Speaker  41:16
Okay, um, anybody got anything

Speaker 3  41:18
else I just reached out Shane to the broker. I'll keep the posted. If anything,

Speaker 1  41:26
yeah, if you get anything, um, you know, back and you want me to look at it, you can just, you know, DM it to me in the community. I'll check it out. Okay? Thank you. Okay, everybody, well, another successful one in the books. I.
