Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're in the mentorship portion of the night. It is July 10, 2025 and I kind of want to start with an update for my current acquisition. The auto repair shop pretty much normalized at this point to the point where I'm not there all the time. It's taken a two and a half weeks, something like that, and three weeks, maybe part of that was a couple of holidays mixed in there, and the issues with the previous owner kind of getting in the way. But I'm going to be going all next week, the manager has been taking care of things. So part of the part of the issue has been getting payroll set up because of holidays and vacations for the accountants. So that's been kind of a headache. But I think I left everybody last week talking about the previous owner, and being in the way in that. So what we're doing is, I have, I've made an offer to buy all of their parts, seller, finance, no money down. Which is, which is great. You don't get that very often. But this, this, this previous owner is so frustrated that he's kind of still stuck there and watching someone else run his business that, you know, he built, that he's he's just ready to to figure something out. So it was not a part. It's not an option at the beginning, but it's an option now. So that's, that's cool. So we're doing inventory right now. Of the parts, once we get an accurate handle on it. It's looking like it's going to be 325, over four years. So we're going to do, we're going to do seller finance with that, with 5% one time interest, not compounding interest. So that should be a pretty good deal. It's going to be about 8000 a month and an additional payment. But the parts business, if you, if you take the cost of goods sold and factor that in there, it makes about 16,000 a month selling parts currently. So those margins, I love that should, should work out. We'll see, but I'll keep everybody posted. I just want you know, every every acquisition that you get into, think something comes up, something wonky, something weird, and you have to figure a way to navigate it and and keep moving forward. But there's always a way. So, you know, even even me, I've been doing this for quite a while, shit happens. You can't, you can't think about everything. I thought this was a sweet old man that was just thankful that someone was going to buy his business, and he kind of is, but then he's also kind of an asshole that doesn't want to see anything change. Okay? And I wasn't, I wasn't prepared for that, and you just never know so, but there's always a way through that stuff, but lesson learned. So I think Wally, did you want to go through your business?

Unknown Speaker  03:11
Yeah, if you wanted to, that's fine. So

Speaker 1  03:20
okay, do you want to talk about any give us some background on what, maybe, what type of business? And, yeah,

Speaker 2  03:27
yeah, yeah, I won't say, I guess I can't say too much, but it's basically just a lawn care or landscaping business here in the Midwest, and the reason for selling is just pursuing another, another venture. But I didn't see any red flags myself, but I was just hoping we could go over it and see what's going on. I guess.

Speaker 1  03:53
Did it? Did it meet the five criteria, as far as, like the employee, the amount of employees, and years established and

Speaker 2  04:01
all that? Yeah, it did. I think it was actually six employees instead of seven, but the owner himself, his role isn't too crazy. So does have the,

Unknown Speaker  04:18
you know, that chance to be semi absentee.

Unknown Speaker  04:21
So, okay,

Speaker 1  04:26
all right, okay, that's cool. So, and it is Midwest, so it is going to be seasonal. You're going to have some downtime, yeah, okay, all right, so let's dig into this, some of these numbers, you know, we generally kind of disregard the revenue, right? Revenue is, is, is not a great indicator of the health of the business, but this seller discretionary earnings and the net income. So there you go. So you. Hmm, okay, is it just, what did they give you a reason why this was so low in 2022

Unknown Speaker  05:10
this net income, even though the revenues were higher?

Speaker 2  05:14
No, they they did. I actually reached out and I mentioned that, but they didn't, didn't reply yet. But I think the SD for all three years was still pretty close. There was, I know there was some revenue dips and changes, but I mean, the cash flow still seemed to be there. Okay, it

Speaker 1  05:38
looks like they just bought a bunch of equipment, probably because the operating expenses are just really high, so probably something like that.

Speaker 2  05:47
That'd be my guess. I think. So I don't know, are you sharing your screen, because I can't see it, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  05:57
Yeah, my bad guys, yeah. So

Speaker 1  06:02
here's the numbers you can what I was what I was pointing out a little bit ago is the in 2022 the net income was substantially lower than 23 and 24 so if you look down here at the operating expenses, the operating expenses in 2022 were much higher, even though revenue is a lot higher some So something was happening there. I don't know if they maybe were in a different building or whatever, who knows, or just needed to to buy some new equipment or something. Okay, so the owner is taking a salary each year, okay, which would be the difference in here between the net income and the SDE, right? So if you take this, this salary, add it back into there, you know, that's what gets you closer to this SDE, because it's still all the owner's money. It doesn't really matter. You know, they take a salary for tax purposes. There are some ad backs, so that's probably, it's pretty low. I bet that's like a phone, computer or something like that.

Speaker 3  07:20
Shane, so in cases like this, should he go back and ask for further explanation on the operating expenses for 2022

Speaker 1  07:28
Yes, yeah. And he did ask, and they just never responded. So okay, but yeah, I mean, there's anytime you see any anomaly in here, you need to know why. Maybe, maybe you know, it could be something like, I don't know, they lost a partner and had to pay that person severance, or something like, you need to know. You need to get a full accurate history of the business, what's been going on with it. Because, you know, past behavior is the best indicator of future performance. Okay, so that's all we have to go on. We can't predict what's going to happen six months from now, except by looking at what happened six months ago. And you know, a business that has been around for long enough that part of the reason why we look for a business has been around long enough is it's a few reasons. One, you have a lot of financial data, then there's something else called the Lindy effect, which the Lindy effect says that anything that's been around for a long time tends to continue to be around for a long time. That's just, it's a principle. So if something's been around for 20 years, it's much more likely to be around for another 20 years than something that's been around for two years. You know that's,

Speaker 2  08:42
yeah, I believe this one was established in 2014 or 2013

Speaker 1  08:47
Okay, so there you go. So it's working on 1012, years of, you know, surviving. It survived covid. It survived a lot of craziness. So, but yeah, I mean, anytime you see something go from 100,000 to 7000 you need to get the answer to that question, because that could be important, because maybe it was a balloon payment. Who knows? Who knows? You know could have been or maybe that just explains that they bought a whole bunch of brand new equipment in 2022, so now you know the equipment is three years old, and you can do some research. How long does this equipment last? You know, is this equipment going to last another three years, or is it on a three year cycle? You need to buy equipment every three years. I would say, from experience that your, you know, your equipment should last at least five years if you got the right equipment. So shouldn't be that big a deal?

Speaker 2  09:39
Yeah, I do. I think it is equipment, because one of the files that he sent over was just this, like three page long equipment list. So I think that might have been it, but I did ask, so I'm just waiting on that response.

Speaker 1  09:51
What did you see? What kind of equipment it was? I can check right now. Yeah, I'm curious as the brand, because that makes a huge difference. Yeah. In the life, lifetime. Okay, so here you see, this is, you know, the income sheet. Sometimes I'll call it the P and L, sometimes I say the P or L, but basically, it's all your income, all your expenses, all loaded up in there. So you can see what happened. The revenue is pretty good. I mean, that's a good size landscaping company. That's that's not bad. So they do advertise, got a little bit of an advertising budget, contract labor, so they've got 1099, employees, okay? So that's a little bit different than than payroll, but you'll see that a lot of times with landscaping companies, because it's it's difficult, because it's for one, it's seasonal, and it your demand goes up and down. So you just have to pay people when you need them, as opposed to paying hourly. That's very, very common. So you got depreciation. They've already put 85,000 in depreciation on that equipment,

Unknown Speaker  11:11
insurance, fuel.

Speaker 1  11:16
Well, I know they have, they have contract and payroll, so they have a little of both. So that would be another question I would want to ask them. Wally is like, what is your breakdown? What are you using contract labor for? And what's your, you know, your day to day employees, what are they doing? So, yeah, are they, yeah, contracting, like, and, you know, excavating, work, things like that, and that's it, or is that a part of their day to day? Well, actually,

Speaker 2  11:43
I look to the equipment list. They do have excavators. They put the total equipment came out to 166,000 I think that contract labor work might be for, like fencing. They have a 2019 John Deere commercial mower with Kawasaki engines. They have a couple saws, trimmers, hedgers, blowers. But I mean, all in all, comes out too. And they have 12345, they have five trucks, f2, 50, f3, 50, f1, 50, a bobcat. So, I mean, it actually all looks like it comes out 266,000 as they mentioned. I think that might have been it, but I did ask anyways,

Speaker 1  12:29
so they only have one mower, so then they're doing more landscaping than they are long here. Yeah, maybe. And that one mower, if it's, if it's been used very much, it's about dead. They bought it in 2019, yeah. But that's just one most. That's 15,000 for a new one. Okay. Now, did you plug this into the analyzer to see what it looked

Unknown Speaker  12:56
like? I haven't yet. No,

Unknown Speaker  12:58
okay, let's do that.

Speaker 4  13:02
Mm, quick question, why the depreciation? It's high, but for only 2022 is it? Are they doing it like a bonus depreciation? Or probably hearing over for like five years, right?

Speaker 1  13:19
Yeah, probably, they probably took bonus appreciation that year that they bought, probably the excavator, or something like that, or the trucks. Because, if you think so, it was 60,000 this year, it was 80,000 or it is, it would be, it would be 40 or 40% this year, 60% in 2024, 80% 2020, 300% 2022, 2022, right? Because it's been stepping down, and now it's back to 100% again for this year. But I would imagine that's, that's probably what they did. They captured all of that depreciation right there, which is going to make it difficult when you're when you're negotiating your purchase agreement, because they're going to want to put most of the purchase price and goodwill and less on equipment, because they don't want depreciation recapture to where they have to pay more in taxes. So that's going to be difficult for you to negotiate that and now with 100% bonus depreciation, we definitely want all the equipment expense in that contract that we can get. Does everybody understand that that concept, right? You you essentially, you have the hard assets that you're buying from the business, and you have the name, the trademarks, the intellectual, you know, intellectual property, the goodwill, the reputation of the business, the websites, things like that. And you have, you know, both of those buckets. And you want, when you buy, you want that equipment bucket to be the one that's the heaviest. So if it's $400,000

Unknown Speaker  14:51
purchase, you know, you want 350

Speaker 1  14:55
in equipment and 50 in goodwill, if you can. You know, no one's going to do that. But. If you can get that, that's great, because this year, if you buy one, you essentially get that entire thing as a tax break, and you don't have to use it all this year, you can use it over multiple years and just continue to not pay federal income tax on on the money you're making. It's, it's a huge benefit right now. If there was ever a great time to buy a business, it's it's right now, like just depends on the type of business. Obviously it's situational, but there are a lot of things that that make it nice to be on this end of it, the buyer's end.

Speaker 5  15:34
Shane, can you explain that one more time you said the tax break is, does that have to do with mainly the equipments, or the business in general.

Speaker 1  15:46
Well, it's depreciated, depreciating assets. So, like, even in real estate, same thing. So you can depreciate the, you know, the building, and you can get depreciation on, like the things inside the building, but not the land. Land will never depreciate. That doesn't include, you know, that's not part of it, but like in a business like this, where you have excavators and trucks and all that stuff, all that equipment, those depreciate at a certain schedule, and you can take that, all of that depreciation upfront first year as a bonus. So it's an incentive, it's just a huge it's a huge tax break to people that are buying real estate and people that are buying businesses like it really helps us, for sure.

Unknown Speaker  16:32
Thank you. Okay,

Speaker 6  16:38
okay, so let's do the analyzer here see what we got. You

Unknown Speaker  16:47
know these numbers by heart? Wally, Can you recite them?

Unknown Speaker  16:53
Asking price,

Unknown Speaker  16:55
asking price, I believe, was 425,

Unknown Speaker  17:02
okay. Cash flow

Speaker 2  17:06
for the one that they reported was 148 I think,

Unknown Speaker  17:12
okay, okay, oh, there you go. It's below three.

Unknown Speaker  17:18
What was the gross revenue? Eight?

Unknown Speaker  17:22
Something, 2024, numbers.

Unknown Speaker  17:27
Do you have them? It was,

Speaker 2  17:28
yeah, ate something. For some reason the listing they put like 750 though,

Unknown Speaker  17:33
okay, we'll go with the listing 750

Speaker 1  17:38
FF and E. What was that equivalent? You said 100 something or other, yeah, 166 okay. Now would you be using the SBA?

Unknown Speaker  17:56
Yeah? Okay, so 10% down,

Speaker 6  18:02
10 years. I haven't looked at interest rates recently, but let's, let's just call it

Unknown Speaker  18:10
let's call it nine to be safe,

Speaker 1  18:13
probably wouldn't be that high, but just in case. Okay, so here's our magic numbers, right here. This is below three, purchase price multiple. That's awesome, right?

Unknown Speaker  18:28
You would have to bring,

Speaker 1  18:32
you know, essentially, this is, this is what they're they're putting no this, this spreadsheet actually puts the a little bit of working capital, you know, 21,000 to make your payroll first couple week, weeks or months, or whatever. So to be safe, it puts it at you'd have to bring 46,000 into that and 10 years and 9% and your DSCR is 2.131 which any bank anything over a two, 2.2 2.25 they love these deals. They will finance them all day. And then you're getting cash flow of 84,000 a year, an extra 7000 a month. Okay, so it looks like you may have found a good deal. As long as you know you can, you can figure out what those anomalous numbers mean, yeah, and then the amount of time that you can put into it, because it said kind of semi absentee, so you might end up having to hire someone, but there's enough cash flow there that you could hire someone, potentially to fill in and still make it worthwhile.

Unknown Speaker  19:43
Okay, yeah, I mean, this might be good.

Unknown Speaker  19:48
Thank you. Shane, does

Speaker 1  19:51
everybody understand those numbers and like, why that?

Unknown Speaker  19:56
Why that means? What it means, I.

Unknown Speaker  20:01
You know, like your

Speaker 1  20:05
your your pre, your pre debt cash flow like so before you pay the loan off, this business makes basically 150,000 but after you pay the debt, your debt payment is 64,000 a year, you're left with 84,000 that's why this number is huge, because it means the higher this number is, the easier it is to pay the debt and still have money left over. That's what this ratio is about.

Unknown Speaker  20:37
But yeah, not bad Wally, that was a good one.

Unknown Speaker  20:43
Anybody have any questions about that?

Speaker 2  20:49
I would say the only bad thing about it is it is a bit of a drive for me. So I don't know if it's the best, you know, starter business, like it's like an hour 45 minutes away. Think that's an issue, or possibly,

Speaker 1  20:59
I mean, it just depends. I don't know what your schedule is like, but that's a pretty good job, even if you have to take two weeks to get things set up. I mean, that's, that's, that's tough. Yeah, you could go get an Airbnb or something and stay down there for a little while getting things going. That's one thing. But what if something happens? You gotta, gotta be able to jump in a car and get there, you know immediately, six employees, right? Yeah, six employees. I would, I would really, really talk a lot to the employees. I would want to get a handle on what that day to day is like, is there somebody that's been like a crew chief, but that many trucks? So you've got, you said, three or four trucks? Yeah, imagine they have simultaneous work going on. Whoever's driving each one of those trucks. There's probably, you know, three crews of two, something like that. So I would be very interested to see who's actually coordinating all those trucks, where they go, who's taking the payments, who's handling that, because there's some kind of there's also recurring revenue in the form of, if they are doing lawn care, if they are doing leaves for the same people every year, if they do mulch on a rotating schedule, like somebody's doing that work, or they're using software to do that work, but it has to be entered in by somebody. So, yeah, business you're looking and they say, Well, somebody's doing that. Somebody is you,

Speaker 2  22:29
yeah, yeah. And you also mentioned that you don't, you have a landscaping business, yeah? So what do you think is a good, good ratio of recurring to, like, one time,

Unknown Speaker  22:43
you know, revenue. What

Speaker 1  22:45
should that be? Well, this is a different kind of landscaping than so we do small scale landscaping. We're more lawn care than than we are landscaping. We don't have excavators. We don't have, you know, it's more lawn flower beds, mulch and snow removal leaves, stuff like that. So it's not equipment intensive with the big machines and the big trucks and stuff. It's more about mowers and trimmers and, yeah, keeping, you know, keeping people hired and on the trucks.

Speaker 2  23:16
Yeah, because I believe this one was 60% recurring revenue with no, no large clients, just, I guess, regular homeowners.

Speaker 1  23:27
That's pretty good. That's not bad at all. Yeah, yeah, especially when they're not doing a lot of mowing they're doing so they have recurring revenue with the bigger jobs.

Speaker 2  23:37
That's, yeah. Well, if you go back to one of those, I think the picture, if you go through them, there should be a description of all the of the recurring revenue. I think it was the first one, yeah, see at the very top of that one, right there, 60% recurring lawn maintenance, turf treatment, Spring and Fall cleanups. Christmas lighting. Oh, Christmas lighting.

Speaker 1  24:01
You know, an additional revenue stream in the winter that you know most, most people just lay off their workers and they they do unemployment, you know, if that happens.

Unknown Speaker  24:13
So that's cool, yep.

Speaker 1  24:17
Fences, okay, yeah. I mean, there's a lot to learn about this business, that there's a lot of questions to be asked, but I would definitely pursue it.

Unknown Speaker  24:26
Okay, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  24:31
What else you guys got for me? Man?

Speaker 4  24:38
Quick mission. Just follow up. Is it true that sometimes, like I saw on Tiktok Business Brokers, they do not include owner salary, so that way they can inflate the prices for the business. So in this case, we have SDE. It's more like. A cash flow, right? In this case, no, not a salary for the owner. Yeah.

Speaker 1  25:05
I mean, SDE is the ultimate, you know, it's kind of interchangeable, depending on the person you talk to with cash flow, but SDE is what we're, what we're after. SDE is the num, is the magic number. So a lot of times when I say cash flow, I'm referring to SDE, but people don't know what that is, so I just, I just say cash flow. But yeah, I mean, because that owner salary is an ad back, you don't have to take a salary if, if Wally wanted to buy this business and not take any salary whatsoever, you know, then he, he gets, he gets that 184 but if he wanted to take $50,000 salary. You know, it's still his money. It's just, it's just taxed differently, that's it. So he would have to find what worked for him. And depending on what his his regular job is, you got to have the right strategy to, you know, it's all about lowering your income tax, right? But, but, yeah. So you're saying that, do I think brokers are inflating the SDE? Is that what you're asking

Speaker 4  26:09
the one I saw, she was saying that they did not include the owner's salary in the listing, so that way, like in a PNL, probably it will show more profit so, so they can sell it higher, right?

Speaker 1  26:27
Yeah, but I mean, all that is revealed, I mean it might, it might make it more enticing to you know, you want, they want to show the highest SDE that they possibly can. But I mean, SDE is always going to be the same. So they want to show the highest cash flow. Is that what you're saying, or the highest? Yeah, yeah. But I mean, soon as you look at the financials, you know exactly what it is, and you're you're plugging them in, you're looking at it, and you don't care. This number is not as important as the SDE, because there's so many things you can do with that you can give yourself 170,000 $1,000 salary and show the business only makes 14 it's still a profitable business. You still make a lot of money. It just you're going to screw yourself where you can't sell it. If you if you're doing something, it's going to make it difficult to sell, because when you show the cash flow on there, it'd be, it'd be deflated in the way that they're inflating it. But if you still, if someone's really interested in in looking and a broker knows what he's doing, they're going to put that ad back in the cash flow anyway. They don't like. There's no hard and fast rules on what brokers can and can't do on these sites. There's no, there's nobody looking over their shoulder to verify this information. They just don't it's, it's on us to verify it. So this business could have been listed for sale, for, you know, 400,000 and show $350,000 in revenue. Or, excuse me, in in SDE, and it not be true, because nobody's really looking No. I think you can make a complaint to biz, buy, sell, that it's false, or something like that, and they'll look into it eventually. But there's so many false listings out there that I don't think they really do much about it. What's up? Wally, thank you.

Speaker 2  28:21
So on the topic of salary, so what would be wrong, I guess? Or is there anything wrong with, say, an owner who just doesn't pay themselves a salary at all and just does, like, maybe, you know, you know, take some profit or dividends, I guess at the end of the year? Would there be anything wrong with that?

Speaker 1  28:40
Even No, I mean, whether you're not, you take a salary or you do what's called a draw, yeah, just, it's just the tax. I mean, it's still money that's coming, coming to you. You You don't have to take anything. If you take no salary whatsoever, then the SDE and the cash flow is basically the same, so it doesn't matter, but it's still your money, right? It's all about taxes. That's it. It's, it's moving money where it needs to fit your tax profile. That's all it is.

Speaker 3  29:08
Okay. Is there any restrictions Shane on having as an owner being on payroll depending on how you structure the business?

Speaker 1  29:18
Um, what do you mean? Restrictions? Like, from, from the IRS, like, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  29:23
like being an S corp versus

Unknown Speaker  29:26
a C Corp versus just a regular

Speaker 1  29:28
DBA, yeah. I mean, if, if it's like a C Corp, you're gonna have to take some sort of a salary. It doesn't the whole, the whole reason why you you want a C Corp, if your cash flow is over a certain amount, is because you you don't have to pay the self employment tax. The self employment tax when you, when you when you say, have an LLC and you're paying yourself, which is probably why they're only paying themselves. 24,000 or whatever. 28,000 whatever. That. Was because it's like, what is that? It's like, 15% or so it's really high. The self employment taxes is really high. And I don't, I don't think it's fair that it's high as high as it is, but that's how they do it. So you might pay a higher tax on that salary that you're taking for an LLC then if you were to move that into a C Corp and take a salary, you're going to take, you know, it's going to be more like 9% or something like that, you're going to pay on taxes, but it's double taxed, so the income that the business is making, the business pays tax on it, and then you pay tax on it again when you pull the salary. So that's why they say it's double tax. So you have to, and in this stuff, there's so much nuance to it, and there's no way that any regular people like, I mean, I can talk about this stuff all the time, but there's so much that I don't know that you have to, you have to go to someone who has spent their life dealing with tax code to find the right fit for the business, and it's one of those things you have to bite the bullet. You have to pay $200 an hour, but it can save you so much money that it's totally worth it. But I've done it long enough in my state that I know that if I'm pulling 40 to $50,000 out of a business. It's a it's time for me to switch it to a C Corp, because it's going to end up being cheaper, because I will still make this, you know, I'll just pay way less in taxes.

Speaker 5  31:33
Got it. Thank you. Would there be a difference between a draw versus I? Paying yourself in a small business, isn't it the same thing?

Unknown Speaker  31:47
No, it's a little different. It's also taxed differently, yeah.

Speaker 5  31:51
So can you be an LLC and just do a draw, as opposed to paying yourself? Would they tax you as self employed at that point, or will it be taxed? I mean, I'm a little confused.

Speaker 1  32:09
It's there a draw is taxed differently than a salary or an hourly wage, but it just and again, state to state, it's different. You. It's one of those things that you have to just, you have to, you have to go to an accountant. No, it sucks. It sucks, but you're better off to go early than late, because you need to know these things before you decide what to do. Okay, yeah, I'm like, when I'm paying down the debt, I don't take a draw or a salary, but I'm, I've been I don't need to, you know, it's different. When you need to pull money from the business. You need that to live on, then you have to figure out the best way to get money out of the business so you can live on. What you should not do is you mix those funds together with your personal to where you know you're buying groceries on your business credit card. You know you don't want to do that. You know you don't want to blur those lines, because then it's you're kind of asking for an audit in that situation. You know you don't want to do that. You want to figure out a way to pay yourself and then do it just like I talked about, was it a couple weeks ago, about business credit versus personal credit. You know, you can use your personal credit card for your business, but you never want to pay your business to pay off your personal credit card directly. You want your business to pay you, and then you pay the credit card off.

Speaker 5  33:42
Wait, has that? So I'm sorry I'm a little caught up in this, because this is what I do with my baby that I grew from scratch.

Speaker 1  33:54
Well, what they would that's mixing personal and business funds together. So they consider that piercing the corporate veil. So when you have an LLC or an S corp or C Corp, or whatever you know it's, it's putting a separation between your personal finances and the in the business finances. So that means if somebody ever sues the business, they can't come after your house, your car, things that you own in your personal name. They can only see the assets of the business. But when you mingle those funds together, there's no longer that separation. And the

Speaker 5  34:29
mistake, the mistake on my part, is already done. Now my business is about to bring that money back that it took from me. So are you saying that I shouldn't get the money to pay. I mean, even if there's a direct like, I plan to take the exact money the way it showed up in a credit card and send it right back. I can't do that.

Speaker 1  34:52
You shouldn't. No, you you should, but, but you don't have to pay taxes on that money. It's a reimburse. Reimbursement. Okay, so you give yourself a reimbursement, not a salary, but if you have the receipts for whatever, it's just like, say, if you're working for a company and you're driving to another state on a business trip for that company, you expense the gas, and then the company puts gas on your paycheck right to reimburse that expense. That reimbursement is not taxed. It's the same situation. It's, it's no different, but you have to. You're supposed to go through that one middle step of reimbursing yourself, and then you pay it. So it's, it's like a triangle. You don't want the business to pay your personal credit card, because then you pierce the veil. But if the business reimburses you, and you pay it, that's okay.

Speaker 5  35:49
Can the business reimburse something as high as $3,000 because that's a lot of money, yeah.

Speaker 1  35:55
But if you know, if you, if you never get sued, it's It's okay, it's not going to make any difference. No, no, right, but if you do, then they have a way that they can. They can

Unknown Speaker  36:09
break your your limited liability.

Unknown Speaker  36:12
Oh, wow, thank you,

Unknown Speaker  36:16
sorry for the bad news.

Unknown Speaker  36:17
I know, right.

Speaker 1  36:21
Yeah, but you know, most people, most people break the corporate veil, like most people are mixing that stuff together, and they're playing it very loose, the boundaries between their business and their personal finance. So it's very, very common. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  36:46
well, sorry for that, guys,

Speaker 5  36:47
I have one last question. What about it is like a cash that you ditch into the business you can like lately, I've learned to say, okay, when I'm withdrawing money from a personal account and putting it into the business. I write loan so the business can pay me back, right?

Speaker 1  37:07
No, that's one way you can do it, yeah, yeah. That's you can do it in a couple. You can say an owner contribution or a loan, okay, if you call it a loan, the business needs to pay you back with interest, though. Oh, okay, yeah, because then it's not otherwise, it's not alone. It doesn't have to be much interest, but it needs to have some kind of interest to pay you back.

Speaker 5  37:30
Okay, yeah, thank you. So good a bad news. I'll take the

Speaker 1  37:36
and when you so and whatever the interest is, that is income on your personal taxes. So you have to declare that as additional income, even if it's 100 bucks, it's income on that interest that see what I'm saying, like, it can get so complicated so quickly, and that's why, you know, and a good accountant is worth their weight in gold. Yeah.

Speaker 7  38:02
Shane, I got a question touching on that subject. So, so, I mean, I guess we understand that it is really important to to make sure that we keep that veil right. We never pierced that fail. But in regards to like, like, somebody that, let's say it's, it's going to get to that point where you already need to live off the business, and if you have a mortgage, I mean, like, how would you kind of go, go around that to be able to have the money to to, I mean, to flow the money so that you could do, like a mortgage payment, not directly from the business, right?

Speaker 1  38:46
Well, I mean, you'd have to take a salary, and that's probably, like, like the business, we were just looking at that 28,000 that's probably their mortgage, you know, that's, you know, that's probably, that probably pays their mortgage, or pays their kids school tuition or something like that, like that's going to or rent or whatever. That's going to be some kind of recurring bill that they need to show and need to pay it. And then they probably, you know, everybody that has a business you're using it to the fullest advantage that you can. You know you can get. You can expense as many meals as you can. If they're business meals, you can expense mileage, you can expense all this stuff, but at a certain point, you know, there's no way you can ever justify your business paying your mortgage. That's definitely, you know, there's definitely, there's like, no way unless, unless, what do they call it the Augusta rule, where you can rent out a portion of your house to somebody, and I don't know that's a very complicated IRS loophole, but you you would have to pay yourself some sort of salary, and then from that salary pay that mortgage. Okay, thank you. Mm.

Speaker 5  40:00
What if? What if the business is sharing the same address, like when I started, I had a virtual address, and I'm currently doing the business, and I actually just, I'm letting go my job, and I'm in the bubble right now asking myself, Hey, I don't want to pay myself salary yet. I have to survive one way or the other, but I want the business to take over the rent. I have not decided yet what will, what will happen in that situation?

Speaker 1  40:30
Well, you can, you can deduct a certain amount of expenses for your home office, from, you know, from your your your business expense, from your business but, but you have to, you have to justify that by, you know, it's a percentage. So if you're using that same space for personal stuff, like so, like this, this office right here, right I can, I can never deduct this from business income, because I still have my w2 and I use this office for the majority of that time. If I didn't, I could deduct this entire office, the whole downstairs of my house, probably, but I I can't, because I'm still, I'm still using it for personal use and for whatever. But there's some people that have a dedicated home office, and they never use it for anything other than their business. Okay, so maybe it's a quarter of the square footage. If it's a quarter of the square footage, then you can expense a certain amount of the utilities, a certain amount of the electric bill, the internet, all that stuff, but you have to figure out how much time you're spending in that office for your business, how much time you're spending in that office for personal stuff or jobs that, you know, your regular job, whatever. But, you know, a lot of people misuse that home office deduction, and it causes a lot of audits. Actually, that's one of the easy ones for them to look at. If you're if you have a home office, and you're deducting 100% of that space, and you're saying, No, I'm not using it for anything else. It just brings unnecessary scrutiny on your return. Because it's so obvious to them that it's very rare that somebody has a home office that they don't venture into for anything other than their business. Very rare. Yeah, I mean, I've got a TV down here and couch and refrigerate, you know, like this is, it's, yeah, it's an office, but not really. So they would know. They would know. But I think that was the class that you missed too patience. If you go back into the classroom from like, two weeks ago in the business stuff, and it's personal versus business credit,

Unknown Speaker  42:54
there's a lot of stuff in there that will help you.

Speaker 5  42:58
Yeah, I know I need to go back. I haven't had the time to after my little vacation, I've been sick. I have been trying to catch up with other private things. Okay, yeah, thank you. I'll go back.

Speaker 6  43:11
Yeah, yeah. It is a comfy office. It's very comfy, clouds and everything, monsters, all my favorite things.

Speaker 1  43:22
Um, so what's up with everybody else? Have you? Has anyone found any viable businesses? I know that, you know, we talked about patients. Found that the beauty thing A while back, and it looks that that didn't go through. And sometimes, sometimes those thing, it might be disappointing, but sometimes it's the best, the best thing that happened to you, like because you don't want to be because it honestly the the laundromat that we just went through patients reminded me a lot of this deal that you've been looking at

Speaker 5  43:52
low money. Sorry, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but after you finish the laundromat, did you notice? I didn't have no question anymore. I just kept my mouth shut, because I feel like you just saved me, you know. So it became really clear after the laundromat, like, you know, I feel like, like the experience you're sharing. I was trying to play it simple, play it low, play the little amount. Now going for the big money, but I think it makes sense now after you finish the laundromat. Okay, exactly my picture, right there.

Unknown Speaker  44:34
Okay, good, good. Um,

Speaker 1  44:38
what about everybody else? Does anybody have any Have you been reaching out to brokers or on biz, buy, sell? Got any, any responses? How's it going?

Speaker 8  44:52
I Hey. Shane has gone. Hey. I reached out to a few. But you know, I felt not quite ready yet, because that. Probably want to get an SBA loan, and have to figure out how that all works, since I already have one out. But you know what? I guess my main question is like, at what point do you want to be ready to speak with either a broker or a current owner? You know you kind of want to, I assume you want to, I assume you want to be kind of ready and have some sort of pre qualification, already

Unknown Speaker  45:29
showing that you're pre qualified to, you know, put down

Speaker 1  45:32
Well, I mean, to reach out and even ask about financials. No, you generally don't. Sometimes they want proof of funds, like some brokerage companies do, but for the most part, they don't. They'll send you the financials if you sign an NDA. So like, at the point where I even think about financing is when I reach out for financials and I get them back and they're good. Like, it's a it matches the listing. The numbers work. I put it in this, in the spreadsheet, everything's good. Then I'll call my lender, like, Okay, here's what I got, here's the numbers, here's where it's at. Does it seem, you know, like a good, like a good deal? And I'll send him the financials, and then generally, he's like, Yeah, it's like a good deal. And then I pursue it. Then that you know, because if you, if you reach out, if the numbers are good on the listing, and you get the numbers, the actual financial data, and it matches those numbers, and everything looks there's no like, big red flags. I mean, I'll reach out to a lender, and I'll put an LOI on it right then, because it keeps other people from jumping in. And you're it's non binding. You don't have to worry about, you know, if you do find some big red flag a few weeks, you can always just say, Nope, Psych, I don't want it anyway. And you don't have to give a reason, you just say, Nope, I'm not feeling it. See, you, that's all you have to do

Unknown Speaker  47:02
that's kind of, that's generally how I do it.

Unknown Speaker  47:05
Okay, yeah, the one

Speaker 8  47:08
person I had reached out to who's the owner of the business, he, I signed an NDA, but he, he wouldn't send over any financials unless I had, you know, proof of funds, or proof of being

Unknown Speaker  47:26
qualified for a loan, or whatever,

Unknown Speaker  47:31
in that situation, if

Speaker 1  47:35
you know, if the numbers in the listing look good enough, and you feel like it could, I mean, you're not going to take a hit to get a proof of funds letter. You know, you can get a proof of funds letter from your bank. You can actually just get a proof of funds letter from anywhere that don't mean anything. They're really just a piece of paper with words on it that like it. There's a template, actually in the community for a proof of funds letter, if it's just to get financials. So it's up to you. I've never used it. Somebody gave it to me, but yeah, you can go that route if you wanted to. Otherwise, you can just contact some a banker and just ask them to do, you know, not necessarily a proof of funds, but a proof of financing. And just say, hey, if I brought you a deal of this, and my credit score is this, and my income is this, and my whatever is this, would I be able to get financing? And generally, that's all it takes to get a proof of financing, like, just like in real estate, real that the whole, you know, proof of financing is a joke. Like, you hardly give a bank any information, and they will give you one of those because they want your business. They want you to find something that you fall in love with, and then come back to them for the financing, because that's where they make their money, is by giving you money, by loaning it to you so you pay it back. So it's really easy to get those

Unknown Speaker  49:07
so a curiosity,

Speaker 8  49:11
obviously, like a startup, no no banks gonna lend to you, right? You know an SBA loan, well, but, but you're saying with a company that's already in existence, you know, it's and they have some a nice track record. They are

Unknown Speaker  49:31
generally would would lend you.

Speaker 1  49:34
It's a much safer loan for them. That business has been around. They have solid financials, and that DSCR that we were just looking at is two or above. It's not it's not difficult to get financing, unless your personal credit is really bad or you can't bring a down payment, like you don't even have to. When you get a proof of financing letter from a bank, you don't. Have to show them anything about how much money you can bring as a down payment. You just say, if I brought this much down payment, you just say, 20% would you finance it? And could you give me a proof of financing letter? And there you go. You got it like it's a phone call. There's no there's, I mean, you might have to fill out some preliminary form, but there's not much to it.

Unknown Speaker  50:23
Great, good to know. Thank you, Wally. Do

Speaker 2  50:27
you have your hand up? Yeah, so actually, about the whole SBA pre qualification thing. So if a bank, wouldn't it be a bit more difficult than that, because I know a bank can look at your So wouldn't it be a little bit more than just them looking at your bank account and seeing 30 grand and approving you for 300 because what if you, for example, if they were to do that, and you were to go to them afterwards and say, Hey, I found the business I want, and it's something that they feel as though you may not have, you know, the skill set to actually own and run, because isn't a big part of an SBA loan experience.

Speaker 1  51:05
Well, SBA pre qualification is different than just proof of financing from a bank. So it's SBA pre qualification. You have to go through an SBA approved lender, and yeah, they're going to ask you a lot more stuff, which you don't if, if a seller is asking for proof of financing or proof of funds, you can give them anything and that that'll qualify for it. They just, they're just like, the the laundromat, they got 1000 requests. You know, they're just trying to weed out people. They're getting a bunch of requests. They want to make sure that it's not a tire kicker, that it's somebody that's serious, before they put their financials out there and just go through the motions of it. So you Yeah, if you just go to a in this situation, if you just go to a regular bank, maybe you're the bank that you use all the time, and say, Hey, I'm looking for proof of financing. This is the kind of deal that I'm looking for. This is my down payment. You know, you know, I have an account here. You know, you know little bit about me. Can I get a proof of financing letter? They're going to give it to you. You talk to a regular person in the loan department. I've never been turned down for a proof of financing letter ever. And I've given very little information for those letters. It's generally been for real estate, but it's the same concept, and they'll make it very vague in the proof of financing, they'll say something like, such and such is approved for this much funding to purchase a business or whatever that the real estate would be contingent upon full approval through the bank's lending process or something like that. So essentially says nothing other than they looked you up and said, maybe we could give them money at some point. Okay, that makes sense, but yeah, SBA pre qualification is different. It's more involved.

Unknown Speaker  53:15
Yeah, great questions, though,

Speaker 3  53:29
anybody else? I've seen a few businesses out there. It was the plumbing and HVAC and the landscaping, but they have no employees. It's all 1099, contract labor. So are you really just buying the brand, quote, unquote, and maybe small equipment that they have?

Speaker 1  53:51
It depends on, you know, there's so many different models for businesses like that. They could be a more of a GC or general contractor, and they subcontract to smaller plumbing businesses, like, like, maybe they have a big web presence and, you know, good SEO on their website, and people are calling them first and then. Or, you know, maybe they're more like a statewide organization, like, I'm trying to think of the name of, like, roto rooter. That's a good everybody knows that business, right? A plumbing business, rotor Rooter, most of the time, rotor rooter is you're calling them, and they have a network of subcontracted plumbers in a bunch of different states, and you call them behind the scenes. They're notifying a local plumber who's just like Joe schmoes plumbing that's trying to make it, and he's the one that comes to your house. So it could be that model, or it could be that they don't have enough work where they can pay someone hourly, full time, so they just 1099, that person instead, there's you just have to get more information and find out what's going on there, because. Could be a lot of different things. For instance, like the landscaping business that I have, we tend 99 our employees, because it's up and down business, and it's, it's more cost effective for us to do that than it would be to pay them hourly. Because there's, it's so different, like in the spring and there's a lot of rain, there's a lot more work, so they're working a whole bunch of hours. Then it gets into August and it's dry and grass isn't growing as much, it's a lot less. And then, you know, so it's just so up and down and sporadic that it makes more sense to just pay as needed. Kind of thing.

Speaker 3  55:40
Would you expect the business like that to still meet that three multiple or would you expect it to be even higher?

Speaker 1  55:47
I mean, it'd be great if it's even higher, but yeah. I mean, no, no, business is immune from that multiplier rule, unless then there are over $1.6 million asking price. Once you hit 1.6 the numbers become a little different. And you can, you can go a little over three, and it still services the debt, okay, but and to that point, yeah, nobody is immune. No business should be immune from that rule, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  56:32
Whose iPhone tonight?

Unknown Speaker  56:35
Hello Mr. Or Mrs. IPhone?

Unknown Speaker  56:41
That may be me. Yeah, I think so.

Speaker 9  56:45
Yeah, I just sent a message. I did look at a it's Laura, by the way. Okay. I looked at the business, a landscaping business, that looked good. Everything seemed to be on the up and up with the numbers. However, they only the employees only speak Spanish. I don't speak Spanish, so how would you get around something like that?

Speaker 1  57:15
Yeah, that would be tough. That would be tough because you have to deal with employees all the time. I mean, they only speak

Speaker 9  57:22
Spanish, only, yeah, and they did. They're planning on bringing someone in that, does, you know, this bilingual, but then I would be subjected to only, you know, dealing with that one employee, and he would have to be there all the time. He would have to be the you know. What would I do? You know, without that one employee, and I don't like to be that reliant on just one person, so, yeah, so that was the reason, I kind of that's not going to that's not going to work out, I don't think long term, but I don't know if anyone else is still dealt with anything like that. I know here in Florida, you know, a lot of the landscaping businesses seem to be primarily, you know, a lot those employees are typically, you know, Spanish, and don't really speak good, clear English. So I don't know what you would do in a situation like that.

Speaker 1  58:15
Well, I haven't dealt with that situation, but I can tell you that you need to be able to communicate with your employees at all, right, no matter, not just the manager. Managers aren't always going to be there, but like, if you so, you would be really, really beholden to one person, even, even more so than if they were a general manager and everybody spoke English, like, because, for instance, if that, if that GM is even out for a day or two, or has to get surgery or whatever, like you're just, you're in trouble. That's right, yeah, you have to use Google, you know, translate, or one of those apps or something, to try to speak to your employees. It would be, it'd be difficult. I yeah, I don't, I don't think I would take on that challenge.

Speaker 9  58:58
Yeah, yeah. I know. I decided to move on from that. But I don't know if anybody else had had any ideas with that, but yeah, so that's that's kind of been the challenge with looking at those type of business, businesses in Florida, anyway, so,

Speaker 1  59:10
oh, there you go. You can use AI to

Speaker 9  59:13
translate for I thought about that too. Yeah, they have some apps and chat GPT things that you know can translate. You know, you can translate that way, and they have earpieces too now that they do, yeah, when you go to a nail salon, it's a good idea to have that. For women. They go to nail salons, it's good.

Unknown Speaker  59:30
I'm on tick tock. I see them all the time.

Unknown Speaker  59:34
Yeah? So

Speaker 1  59:35
yeah, I don't think I would do that. Yeah, yeah. I agree. I agree. I

Unknown Speaker  59:47
anybody else? Anybody else found, found a business or reached out?

Speaker 1  59:55
No, okay? Well. Keep looking guys. I mean, the competition is pretty fierce, and I think the whole bonus appreciation thing is gonna if anybody was on the sideline, it's probably gonna push them back in. But I think it's gonna be more of a factor in real estate. Real Estate's gonna be a blood bath this year. Interest rates are down a little bit. Property values are still pretty high in most places, but and then you also have that five year window of those large, multi families that were refinanced during covid in 2020, and now the interest rate is back up, so they might have a two interest rate now it's their five year reset, they have to refinance at seven or eight. There. A lot of them are going to be in trouble. So there's gonna be a lot of competition for those those

Unknown Speaker  1:00:48
so yeah, yeah,

Speaker 9  1:00:54
with a with a builder, we're actually meeting in the next two weeks to to go over some ideas with that. So he can either do, you know, go in and and do a rehab, or, you know, maybe VRBO business, build it up. Build up the property as an LLC, once it starts making money, you know, three years down the line, four years on the line, sell it. So we're going to look at some different options in that regard. So, okay, yeah, yeah. So I may be circling back around with, with that, with those some ideas.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:30
You know, I love short term rentals, Yep,

Speaker 9  1:01:34
yeah, yeah, especially here in Florida, it's, it's booming right now, for sure, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:01:41
just watch out for the insurance there. It's pretty nasty. Yes, it is, yep, stay away from the water. Yeah, stay inland, for sure. Yeah, and sink holes, yeah, absolutely. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:58
Anybody else have any questions? Okay so?
