Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're getting ready to go to the mentorship portion to do the Q and A. It's Thursday, September 25 2025 there was a question Shane, you asked about manufacturing companies. Can you repeat that question?

Speaker 2  00:24
I wanted to know, like, do you think manufacturing companies would now be a good business to buy concern the fact that Trump is putting 100% tariffs on everything, I think they say starting October 1, so goods coming from out the country is going to go all the way up.

Speaker 1  00:42
Well, our response to that is that, you know, there have been a lot of threat tariffs that didn't materialize for one, right? So take, for instance, auto parts. He He said he was going to put tariffs of 50% on all all imported auto parts. He used that as leverage to get better deals with the European Union, and now that's down. I think it's less than 15% tariffs. So you have to be careful, because there's a lot of bluster that happens, especially with Trump, where, you know, he will say something wild and then use that as a bargaining chip to make a better deal, like he's he has a history of that, whether it's the first Chinese tariffs in his first administration, all the way up to the tariffs now. So so that's one risk involved. You could go all in on a manufacturing company just to find out that they struck a deal with whatever. You know country has that export as their their main competitor, and you know, you're all in on a business that can't compete because those tariffs didn't actually land, that would be a big risk there, but otherwise, I mean, yeah, I think it'd be, you know, that's the whole point with this, with manufacturing tariffs, is to bring manufacturing back to the US, although I don't necessarily agree that that is a good strategy for us, because, you know, our main commodities are technology and some of the things that we have a huge head start, as opposed to other countries, I think I would prefer to be in that field and kind of going backwards into manufacturing. But where there's chaos and turmoil, there's opportunity.

Unknown Speaker  02:43
So, yeah, I agree with everything you say.

Speaker 1  02:48
Okay, thank you. No problem. Yeah, it's, it's a gamble. Like I don't, I don't know if I would, if I would, ever put a lot of money into any, any, anything that any politician promised. I don't care who it is. Like, that's a risky, a risky proposition these days.

Speaker 2  03:08
Like, even if, like, it was to happen, like, what about when he's not president anymore because he's, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:15
they could immediately roll back those tariffs.

Speaker 2  03:17
That's what I was thinking about as well. Like, it's not going to stick

Speaker 1  03:20
for long, just just like they did with the Small Business Administration, the SBA, you know, stuff that Biden put into in a place to make it easier to buy a business like the first thing they did is roll back all that stuff so they could essentially do the same thing with tariffs. Well, they did, actually, they rolled back a whole bunch of tariffs when Biden went in, and they actually left a lot of the Chinese tariffs in place, but they did roll back quite a few.

Unknown Speaker  03:49
Yeah, so I'm just gonna, I'm not gonna do that at all.

Unknown Speaker  03:53
Yeah, I like the,

Speaker 1  03:55
I don't the boring mom and pop businesses that have been there forever, that don't care about tariffs, that don't care about tax brackets, that don't care about the economy, that provide that service that everybody needs and they've been making money for 20 years. Like, to me, that's that's the way that I like to go.

Unknown Speaker  04:18
I'd rather invest in that than

Speaker 1  04:22
a semiconductor factory that may or may not make a bajillion dollars depending on the whim of somebody in Washington. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  04:31
I agree. Yeah. I totally agree on that one. Thanks. Shane

Speaker 1  04:42
um, so I think so we had a business, right? Somebody sent me one that they wanted to look over. Was that a DM, yep, there it is.

Unknown Speaker  04:51
Aaron, let me see what we got here. I'll share my screen. I.

Unknown Speaker  05:11
Okay, engineering firm, California,

Speaker 1  05:19
so we don't know when it started. Do you have any more information than what's in the listing, or is this? This all we have.

Unknown Speaker  05:30
Aaron, you still with us?

Speaker 1  05:36
No, okay, um, we can still go through it. Let's see. So 320, to 750, obviously, that's awesome. That's almost, you know, a little over a two multiple,

Unknown Speaker  05:51
debt free, semi absentee,

Unknown Speaker  05:57
10 to 15 hours per week for an owner.

Speaker 1  06:10
Yeah, they use HubSpot CRM. I'm actually familiar with that. That's a lot of auto repair shops use that. It's pretty good. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  06:23
pretty fancy. It has

Unknown Speaker  06:26
videos and

Unknown Speaker  06:30
everything, okay?

Speaker 1  06:36
Major contract, another venture outside of this industry. Red Flag, I mean, if someone's only spending 10 hours a week on this business, and they're making $320,000 a year from it, they will hire someone to spend that 10 hours a week for 100,000 and still make you know 250 or whatever, from it, and move on to their other venture. So, yeah, I don't, I don't like the reason for selling at all, so I would probably not pursue this.

Unknown Speaker  07:17
Let's see somebody else

Unknown Speaker  07:21
sent me one.

Unknown Speaker  07:27
Okay, here's one from Shane

Unknown Speaker  07:35
glass repair.

Speaker 1  07:43
Um, that's pretty close on the multiple there. What is that? That's, we can do that math real fast.

Unknown Speaker  07:56
Yeah, it was 832, um, nine, seven for the multiple.

Speaker 1  08:01
Okay, so it's Yeah, so it's really close, but it does work 99 It was established

Unknown Speaker  08:15
Jacksonville, Florida, okay, I

Speaker 1  08:24
I mean, it's, it's a home service business like, I love that. You know, window windows get broken. It happens all the time. It's always going to be needed. Seven employees, 6000 square feet facility, qualifies for SBA, according to them. Owner works 20 hours a week,

Unknown Speaker  08:51
residential, commercial and automotive.

Speaker 1  09:04
A 60,000 in inventory that's included. Okay, that's good. 125,000 in FF and E included. Lease is only two years. So the big question there would be, what are the renewal options? After the two years, you have to negotiate a brand new lease, or, you know, what's going on that can be a deal breaker. If it's a landlord that wants you to renegotiate at 10 grand a month, that can really kill your profits. So you have to, you have to find out about that.

Unknown Speaker  09:39
Okay, um,

Unknown Speaker  09:47
oh, it's a franchise.

Speaker 2  09:50
Oh my gosh, I did not see that. Oh my gosh,

Speaker 1  09:55
yeah, so I mean you that doesn't necessarily mean it's a it's a bad business. But just know that that's part of it, because that's still so the franchise fees come out of this number.

Speaker 2  10:07
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I don't think I really want to buy a franchise. I want to keep all my $277,000

Speaker 1  10:12
Well, no, that's already taken out. So they probably, I think they said down here to Yeah, so that 277 would be that seller discretionary earnings, so that's after they've taken all the fees out, so that's still your profit.

Speaker 2  10:28
Okay, so Okay, okay, I'm thinking about this. I might contact the person tomorrow morning and see if he can give me some more info about it. Yeah.

Speaker 1  10:38
I mean, I love the industry for sure.

Speaker 2  10:43
I had this other person on there as well, but he never got back to me. I don't know why.

Speaker 1  10:49
Yeah, that's common. They might have somebody else on the hook for it already.

Speaker 2  10:53
Well, it was for automotive business. I could send it to you. I think we had looked at it before, but he never got back at me. Okay,

Speaker 1  11:04
so my question to them would be, you know about the lease renewal? Are there any agreements, or, you know, so, like generally, on a commercial lease, right? You'll sign a lease, maybe a three year lease, and then you'll have a renewal for five years with set terms, and you agree on that at the beginning. So you want to find out if they have something like that in place, that you could actually get those same terms. You just don't want to enter into a lease negotiation completely blind and with no negotiating power, because landlords know that, and they'll say, Okay, this person's has a business. They're here. They don't want to move anywhere. I basically have them over a barrel, and I can charge them almost any rent that I want to. And they're going to accept it. You just, you don't want to be in that situation. Okay?

Speaker 2  11:59
So, yeah, I'm gonna, I'm gonna email the guy tomorrow morning and see what they say.

Speaker 1  12:07
Okay, um, Michael, you put one in here. Uh oh, Arizona auto shop.

Unknown Speaker  12:14
Great. Cash Flow.

Speaker 2  12:16
That's your speed, right there. Yes, it is been

Speaker 1  12:19
on there for some time. Keep saying it over the past couple months. Okay, so by the revenue right here, I'm kind of surprised that they're making that their margins are that high, that 144 at only 723, gross revenue. That seems pretty high. I don't know that's a little that's a little fishy to me. Like, like, 700 revenue for auto repair shop is going to generally be under 100 but maybe they're just really good at what they do. They're good operators. You know, they're not a lot of waste. I don't know. Could it be their like rent is lower? Also it could be, it could be, maybe they're not playing, paying their employees a lot. Maybe they don't have a lot of employees, you know, they're they just have low overhead, I don't know, but that that seems like quite a bit, but the multiple is great. 95 i That's awesome. Yeah, I think we have. We've looked at this one before. I think four bays, two and two lifts, so it's pretty small. Seller. Would train a new operator for one month up to six months after that, as a paid employee, seller financing okay

Unknown Speaker  13:47
with industry experience.

Speaker 1  13:52
Buyer will lease the real estate at $17 a square foot, triple net. Hmm, so you can actually ask chat GPT like, what is the average price per square foot for a triple net lease in wherever this is in Arizona, for for commercial property that is suitable for an auto repair shop. That's, you know, what is it? 6000 square feet, whatever it said, I don't know. What does it say? It doesn't say, Oh, 20, yeah, that's pretty small. 2900 square feet. So they they have that place maxed out. As far as you're not going to be able to maybe you could put one more lift in there. It said it has four bays. But why wouldn't they already have another lift in there? So I don't know. There's not a lot of room for growth, but it does make 140,000 as is you. Job was fully equipped for auto AC and all auto repair work, none of the equipment and expertise in auto AC, I don't that's not true. Like so you can, you can literally buy a AC machine for so there's, so there's two types of AC machines. There's the 123 machines and the yf machines, the 123 it's like AC or something like that. I forget what the acronym is. But those, that's the old style Freon. They switched it in like 2019, you can get that machine for like $5,000 and do every, every AC that you ever need to do for $5,000 so that's not true. So if that is their, you know, their their niche, somebody else could come in and disrupt that

Unknown Speaker  16:07
large open area with fence over 10,000 square feet.

Speaker 1  16:12
Seller will finance $200,000 down 7.5 interest and term to match lease term. I mean, it meets the criteria, for sure, that would be something you you'd need to see in person. Yeah, I overlooked that. Well, I guess that's only if I do seller financing. Yeah, it's only seller financing. And if I think, if you're a professional, I'm not Yes, seller financing for qualified buyer with industry experience so,

Unknown Speaker  16:47
but even so, who wants to put $200,000 down?

Speaker 1  16:52
Who's going to do that? But it would be worth looking at. I mean, the numbers are right.

Unknown Speaker  16:59
Is it close to your house?

Speaker 1  17:02
I'm just north of downtown Phoenix. It's probably, I feel like it might be 20 minutes north, so not far, okay, Phoenix, it's worth checking out, yeah, but it is fishy. If it's been owning for a very long time, that's, yeah, something's up. Because before it didn't say price reduced, I think, and price reduced, so, yeah, um, maybe they wanted too much for it, yeah. Why wouldn't other people? Why haven't they bought it already? Kind of, yeah. I mean, right now the way, the way it stands, it's the numbers wise, it's a good deal. So maybe they wanted for something for it, or, I mean, really, they could have asked for much more, and still is a decent deal. Cool, yeah, thanks for taking a look at it. No problem. Um, let's see somebody. Nope, I thought somebody sent me. Somebody was going to send me some financials, right? I was going to look to see if it was redacted correctly. Did you send those?

Unknown Speaker  18:28
Yes, I must do them on Zoom.

Unknown Speaker  18:31
Oh, okay. What did I miss it? I

Speaker 1  18:43
always send it directly to me. Okay, gotcha so let me check this out to make sure

Unknown Speaker  18:52
do any sensitive information.

Unknown Speaker  19:04
Yeah, this looks cool. Okay,

Speaker 1  19:12
can you, without being specific, George, can you tell us a little bit about this place, what you saw Do you have the link to the listing?

Speaker 3  19:24
I don't have the links to the listing, and they're not on this by sell. They're like, you have to, like, log in and sign an NDA to see them through their broker website. But, um, it's, yeah, it's just a pizza place. It's in Florida. The guy's retiring. I know you don't like restaurants, but I'm mainly looking at restaurants because my mother is one with, like, two decades restaurant experience, you know, health inspector, so she has a lot of knowledge in that, and she could, you know, advise me, you know, through running it.

Speaker 1  19:56
Okay, well, that, I mean, that does change things a little bit if you have someone. Hmm, that's available to help. Because you know that the downside to restaurants, everybody knows the competition, right? The competition is is fierce. It's hard to get employees, and you have to be a really good operator to get to make them profitable. So if she's already a good operator, then that puts you ahead of the game, and there are plenty of people all over the US that make a lot of money on restaurants, but it's just it's a hard first business to buy but, but that does change things. Okay, so let's look at the numbers. So 1.1 is what they're asking. I guess they're retiring, right? That's why they want to sell it, yep. So this is total revenue, which we don't care so gross profit, okay, this is what we care about seller, discretionary earnings. So it's, it's trending down for whatever reason. Do um. So when they in a situation like this, where they give me, like, four years, I will completely discount 2020, and 2021, because they are anomalies. Because it's, it's covid, right? It's the pandemic. Everything was crazy. There was money going everywhere from the government, I would just concentrate on 2223 and 24 so to get a decent number from those, what we got is so we got 399, plus 255, plus 357, is that divided by three, so your average is 337, for the last three years. Seller discretionary earnings. Okay, so they're asking 1.1 so it's a little overpriced, not so much that you couldn't negotiate down, but really they should be closer to right at a million.

Unknown Speaker  22:06
But okay, let's keep looking.

Speaker 3  22:11
They do have 2025, annualized. But in your experience, like buying businesses, how often are those annualizations? You know, accurate? I mean, I'm sure that's something I have to do through my own CPA as well.

Speaker 1  22:24
But well, did they? Is there a year to date statement in here, 2025,

Unknown Speaker  22:33
it's gonna be right there,

Unknown Speaker  22:36
or down, yeah, the one, yeah, there, this one,

Speaker 3  22:40
yeah, there's gonna, there's like a current year today through July and yeah.

Speaker 1  22:45
So okay, so that's good. So year to date, the SDE is so this takes us all the way through July. So if this takes us through July, you can kind of guesstimate, you can say 208, divided by seven. So that's we'll just call it 30 a month. That's what it looks like. So there's still five months, so add 150 to it. So 208 plus 150 oops. That puts us at 358, so, so this year, if things hold, if, if the common trends hold true. Now this is not an exact thing. Obviously. This is a prediction, and it's just just to make sure that, like you know, if this number was 100 I would say, turn and run. But right now it's kind of holding strong. So our average was 339 so it looks like the current year. It's still close to what our average is, if not above. Okay, that's, that's the only reason I just got what I did is I got the average per month and then use that to extrapolate the rest of the year. So, but it's just a it's just a guesstimate.

Speaker 3  24:08
Got you and I did see like in the graph, or like in their like EBT report it, they did have a really rough year in 2023 that doesn't seem to be the norm. When I would ask them, what happened that year, what is something like? That's an acceptable answer, versus not

Speaker 1  24:27
sure, that's a great question. So if you if you look right, their gross profit is not very different. So they're still bringing in the numbers that they were bringing in from, you know, year over year. But what it looks like that the profits are way down. So did they invest in something? Did they buy new equipment? Did they buy I don't know what, whatever, whatever they did. They get another location. Did they, you know, but something happened there to where they're expensive. Were higher. It's not necessarily that their sales were down, because that's holding strong. So you know that their strongest year was 2021, that's probably the PPP, you know, all that money that was flowing. But then they're at 1.3 1.3 1.2 so it's trending down a little bit, but not, not that much different. So an acceptable answer that would you know that you could stomach, would be, we bought new pizza ovens, we invested in new technology, we renovated the restaurant, things like that, because this is, this is a byproduct of more expenses, not less sales, perfect. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  25:48
Okay, so there's a lot of employees. This

Speaker 1  25:56
is pretty cool. They gave you all the information. Usually they hold some stuff back. But, I mean, at

Speaker 3  26:03
first they did, like, gave them proof of funds, like, I'm like, ready to buy. You know, I'm set on buying. So once you give them proof and all that, they're willing to come up. But normally they only provide like, 2024 2023 I'm like, the listing package.

Unknown Speaker  26:21
Okay, I mean, they're even breaking down what the SBA is going to require.

Unknown Speaker  26:30
So, hmm, and this is another option.

Speaker 1  26:38
This is a different one. Okay, okay, pizza again, gotcha 1.5 total income. They don't really specify what that is. What that other income is, is that seller discretionary earnings? Is that cash flow, it just says income that could be,

Speaker 3  27:03
I mean, SDE, on the right, there's, like, the financial summary with, like, the revenue.

Speaker 1  27:09
Yeah, those numbers, they look like they match. Wow, look at the growth there.

Speaker 3  27:15
Yeah, that's that kind of popped out to me. I don't really see that normally. Um, I don't know, does that look out? I mean, it looks a little bit abnormal, right?

Unknown Speaker  27:25
Yeah. I mean, they're essentially doubling every year.

Speaker 1  27:29
That's, that's not sustainable growth. That doesn't mean, I mean, that's a good thing, but, but here, here's my main concern, is this

Speaker 3  27:40
other, yeah. I mean, if you're done, yeah,

Speaker 1  27:43
you have a business that is growing 100% every year for the last three years, and you have other interests that seems weird. You know, they may have bought this from someone who was not running it the right way, and just grew it in three years. And this is what they do. They flip businesses, okay, maybe, but I would want to find that out. I would want to find out how long they have owned this business, if they bought it in 2022 for the intent and purpose of growing it. Okay, that's fine. That means they put systems in place. They did advertising, they they've done the same things that we've been talking about doing, and have been successful in it. If it's somebody that has had that business for 15 years, and it took then, I don't know that that seems fishy. I But I mean, the numbers look pretty good. You're talking about 623, for a list price of 1.5 it's cheaper than the other business. As far as the multiple goes,

Unknown Speaker  29:00
what else do they tell you?

Unknown Speaker  29:03
Okay, so they have three locations,

Speaker 3  29:06
yeah, and they're all pretty near me, like geographically. So okay,

Unknown Speaker  29:20
one business is only open from Sunday to Thursday.

Unknown Speaker  29:24
Oh, wait, never mind. Oh, no, they're Yeah, just

Unknown Speaker  29:27
different hours. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  29:43
They even, you know, let you know that you're probably going to lose some employees, you know, the ones that are family members. They're not going to stick around. That's fine. But, you know, I like this broker, whoever this is, you.

Speaker 3  30:00
Yeah, me too. I'm I have a lot of brokers that absolutely call them, tell them, Hey, I can't do anything with just 2023 you know, I need 24 year to date.

Speaker 1  30:18
So the seller is not active in this business, hardly at all. They just do one hour a week for weekly manager meetings.

Speaker 3  30:26
That's yeah for the first two locations. And then that their location, they opened recently. He's actively involved there. Okay, so for that one, I need to find a Yeah. So I would need to find, like, a manager to step up for that one.

Speaker 1  30:42
Yep, that'd be like, Mom, this is yours. Now run this.

Speaker 3  30:49
I've worked in pizza shop too. That was, like my first job, and I was in high school, so I'm a little bit familiar, but I just mainly look at restaurants because, again, she has experience. You can advise me if there's a problem I don't know how to solve, you know, that kind of thing, gotcha.

Speaker 1  31:08
So, the only real red flag I see here is the growth is really high. That's unrealistic growth, you know? But I mean, maybe they've just, they got to figure it out. Now, I don't know. And then the other business interests, you know? So, so this owner has other business interests, but they they have built and stabilized two locations to where they don't have to be there and spend more than an hour a week dealing with those businesses. And they have a third one that they're on the way to making it that, and yet they want to sell it and move on. You just, you know, you have to be careful and figure out what's really going on. But both of these look like pursuable deals.

Speaker 3  31:59
Question about the employees, once you form a letter of intent and have them agree to that and you start due diligence, do you expect to talk to the employees and have the employment contract signed before, like going under contract? Or is that normally after you go under contract?

Speaker 1  32:19
Well, so during the letter of intent phase, you're, you know, when your due diligence first starts, you are still under your NDA, right? You can't, you can't say anything to the employees about that business being sold. You know what, what the owner does is trying to avoid is any kind of a panic where people are going to quit and, you know, go to the business down the street because they don't want to deal with the turmoil that could come from a new owner. So you can't, you still technically can't say anything to them. So what you have to do is you have to structure it into the purchase agreement that you want the ability to talk to the key employees before the sale to make sure that they're willing to stay on board, if that's what you're trying to, you know, to pursue. But I would say

Speaker 3  33:11
the main thing is, okay. The main thing is, is I, like, I was on your live the other day, and you were mentioning how, like, you don't want all the employees to leave once you buy them. And I would really want to avoid that. So my main worry with that is just employment contracts.

Speaker 1  33:28
Yeah, yeah, I mean, but they already have two, you know, fully capable operators and business one and business two and that second one, you know, those, those operators are already pretty much autonomous, but, but yeah, I mean, how I do it is, I put the letter of intent in I deal, I think about the business itself during that phase, like the numbers, you know, the bank accounts, the day to day operations, like, how is this thing running? I still want to be able to go into the business and look around. I want to, you know whether they bring me in as a potential consultant or advisor or even an insurance adjuster. I don't care what it is. I want to be able to go in there and talk to employees and, you know, see, the state of the business, even if I don't say that, I'm going to, you know, I'm potentially going to buy it, I want to be able to talk to them. And then once I get a good handle on, you know, the numbers work, the business is solid. The employees seem like they're solid. Then in the purchase agreement, I'll put the other, you know, position in place where it's like, okay, 24 to 48 hours before we sign this thing and we this is official, I want to talk to manager a, manager B and manager C, and I'm going to make this contingent upon them sign at least two out of the three, or all three, whatever. You're comfortable with signing employment agreements at the same salaries, with the same benefits and everything, you know, some whatever, whatever you want to do, but that's, that's what I put as a contingency on that purchase agreement. So you get all the way to two days before buying this thing, and you know, you can still back out if the managers are like, No, we're going so you're, you know, you're not left holding the bag. If you buy three pizzerias and all three of those people take off,

Speaker 3  35:35
got you in the employment contract, would it be an appropriate idea to have, like, let's say, a $5,000 signing bonus, and if they leave before the two years of that contract, they have to pay it back with interest, or something like that to make sure that they don't leave.

Speaker 1  35:56
I don't know about with interest, but that that, yeah, they would have to pay it back. Yeah, that's totally fair, you know, and especially in the restaurant industry, I don't think there's, you know, managers of restaurants are used to being that manager and not having a piece of equity, like they just manage restaurants. That's what they do. They get, they get paid more than the employees. You know, they have experience, but you could probably get away with not giving them a piece of net profits. The signing bonus. Probably great, a good idea. Thanks. No problem. Well, I mean, even like the the last employment agreement that I entered into the manager, he told me afterwards, he's like, I didn't even need that. All I really needed was he said, You could have got me with a guarantee of a salary every week. If you guarantee me this much money, I would have, I'd been fine with it. So no, I could have gotten it way cheaper.

Unknown Speaker  37:07
Wait, he told you that after the fact that you have done,

Speaker 1  37:10
yeah, yeah. After I got to know him and we became more comfortable, I was like, well, thanks. But at the same time, I still, I still like, I still like that piece of the net profits, because they're incentivized to grow the business, not just run it, you know, effectively, but I want them to grow it too.

Unknown Speaker  37:32
Be incentivized to grow it anyway.

Unknown Speaker  37:39
Okay, anybody else have a question or business you want to look at?

Speaker 4  37:46
I do have a question. Shane, I'm getting ready to go into an LOI,

Unknown Speaker  37:52
retired, the guy 76

Speaker 4  37:56
he's one of the kindest. You just a kind of guy. Been operating for 30 years. The business is 450 it brings in about Cash's SDE is about 280 Okay, so it's good. He has a million dollars worth of equipment that will be part of the sale. He owns it outright. It's a little older. I doubt it's worth a million dollars. I would guess it's probably worth somewhere than $600,000 worth of equipment. Yeah. Equipment. He's lost most of his employees, but this is what crazy. They're still getting jobs his his old employees are getting jobs and then using his equipment,

Unknown Speaker  38:37
and he just lets them use it for free,

Speaker 4  38:41
which he's just 76 there's a lot of potential in this company. But my question, I guess, is he's, it's going to be really hard to get him out. And so what do you usually see in the contract? Is it usually, like a six month, like, Listen, you can stick around for like, six months, and then you have to go, or, how do you, how do you write that in there with not destroying him personally?

Speaker 1  39:08
Yeah, well, I mean, the standard is like 60 days to be available, and then after 60 days, you know, they can be hired as an employee for a certain amount of time if you need them, with a clause where, if you don't need them, they don't have to be there, right? So, because you can't expect an owner to stick around for six months, you know, with with no compensation, no one's going to do that, but 60 days as an advisor, that's pretty standard, but I see what you're saying, like, so this one would scare me a lot, because if, if the employees have pretty much left. Well, I mean, why did the employees take off? Do you know?

Speaker 4  39:55
Because I think they found out that they can go get jobs on their own. Own, use his half million dollars worth of equipment for free, and double their their earnings, which obviously, if I took over, that would come to an end fairly quickly. And so, I mean, there's just, there's a lot of weird things there, but there's such a high I come from the construction industry. This is a concrete resurfacing company that does primarily commercial work, so I understand this, and there's a lot of potential. He hasn't updated his website in 15 years. I just the equipment and the potential, in my opinion, are really high. It just needs he we need to clean house. I mean, he has $85,000 in employee loans that he's just got handshake deals with that they'll pay him back someday. And so I really he's got a great property with a good yard, all that equipment, lots of upside in it, he just needs to leave and let me take over and re modernize.

Speaker 1  41:10
Okay. Well, is he, is he still getting jobs, though, himself,

Speaker 4  41:13
yeah, oh, yeah. I mean, he's he has all the Toyota dealerships in Colorado. He has all the Apple stores in Colorado. I mean, he has a lot of work, like, big, big jobs. It's just, I think he's losing a lot of the mid tier jobs to his former employees, and then letting them use his equipment.

Speaker 1  41:33
Yeah, I mean, I'm this, it sounds like a great opportunity. So you're, you're, you're, upside is huge there, because you could come in with minimal time invested. Well, not, not necessarily time invested, but, you know, upgrade the website, advertise, cut the fat on all those people that are taking advantage of this guy. Hire some, you know, well compensated, experienced people to run the equipment and do what needs to be done and probably make a lot of money.

Speaker 4  42:08
Yeah, no, I agree, and but it was more of the question about the owner, because I, I mean, he's still showing up at five in the morning work until seven o'clock at night. I just know it's going to be, you know, talking to the broker today. He was like, he really wants to write in the deal six months at 5050 and I was like, no, no, no. Like, I'm not buying a business to go work for somebody that's crazy. Like, I'm Yeah, or 5149 I'm happy to do it. And but I was wondering about the six month. Yeah, it just seems like a long time to me.

Speaker 1  42:43
I would absolutely not want an old owner around for six months. No way. I don't want them around for 60 days. I really found for 30 days, unless it's a very complex business. And, you know, yeah, I it's going to be, it's going to be tough, because they're going to show up even even after this happens all the time too, especially with an owner that's created this business been around for 30 years or whatever. Like, even after they're gone, they're still going to be around. They're still going to show up. They're going to call ask how things are going. They just,

Speaker 4  43:23
but, yeah, like, I said, he's a nice guy, but you I can tell that it's gonna be like, 30 days, and I'm just gonna want to be like, Listen, man, you're gonna need you to step back a second. Let me take let me take this. I'm not gonna destroy your business. I'm not gonna grow, I'm gonna grow your business. You know,

Speaker 1  43:41
as long as you you get the feeling that they're not going to be vindictive and start saying things like, Oh, I sold it now they're running it into the ground like, and you can put that in the contract, like non disclosure, where they can't talk about the terms of the deal. They can't bad mouth you in any way, about the way that you're running it. They can't talk to your employees like you can include all of that in the purchase agreement. And there's nothing wrong with doing that. It's quite common actually.

Speaker 4  44:11
Okay, that's a good that's a really good point, because he, obviously, he knows everybody right in this in this sector, he's, he's well known around town, and so I definitely want to put that in there, because I don't think he would do it. But you never know. You never know.

Speaker 1  44:25
Yeah, I mean, if you start doing things with his business, his baby that he doesn't agree with, people get butt hurt, and they do things so and you know, the public is always going to side with the poor old man that sold his business to an outsider that is just trying to, you know, squeeze the community for money. That's what, that's what it'll be spun as. So you just have to be sure that that you have in that contract like so when you, when you get to purchase agreement phase, and you go to your attorney, you you you voice. These concerns. I don't want him to say anything bad about us. I don't want him to talk about the terms of the deal. I don't want him to be around more than 60 days. I want all of this iron clad to where you know when he signs it, you know you're safe.

Speaker 4  45:16
Um, and then I guess my other the only other question I had on this was, so it's going through Trans World. I'm not a big fan, but they're like, you're, you know, they're up selling, obviously, using their attorneys, their lenders and everything. I mean, I could just, I could break free and be like, I want to use my own people, right?

Speaker 1  45:36
Yeah, if they really want to sell this business there, you can use whatever attorney you want to use like so they do that because they want to set the terms of the deal to where they make the most money. You know, they get a kickback from the attorney. They get a kickback from the accountants. No, I don't trust any of that crap. I want. I want someone that answers to me and me only because, you know, you have to keep yourself safe, you know, this too big of a deal to take a chance trusting someone else's attorney. No way. You can't trust your own attorney half the time, let alone someone else's Yeah, no, no, I in there. They're not going to kill a deal because you want to use your own attorney. They're not

Unknown Speaker  46:18
going to Okay, okay. Thank you.

Speaker 1  46:21
Yeah, no problem. It sounds like you might have found a good one, like a kind of hidden gym.

Speaker 4  46:27
It's such a niche little thing, but it's, it's something that people need. It's concrete polishing is going to be around forever, yeah,

Speaker 1  46:39
yeah, yeah, definitely. Well, keep us posted on that one for sure. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  46:49
Um, anybody else? It's been good stuff tonight. Two quick things. I also do not like trans worlds, very, not transparent, not the best communication. So I don't like them either. Also, there was one more business on that, Google doc I sent you, oh, it's a bit more of a complex situation,

Unknown Speaker  47:12
so I'll like kind of explain as you pull it up. This one, I don't,

Unknown Speaker  47:17
yeah, option three, i

Unknown Speaker  47:35
Here it is, okay, sorry about that.

Unknown Speaker  47:39
You're good. Okay, so 3.5 and

Unknown Speaker  47:46
very open to negotiations.

Unknown Speaker  47:49
That's what the broker emailed me.

Unknown Speaker  47:52
Owner retiring

Unknown Speaker  47:56
net income, 721,

Unknown Speaker  48:01
okay. So,

Speaker 3  48:03
and then below that, the depreciation, yeah, is it depreciation actually an ad back, like, is that actually, that's not actually cash, right? That's just like a tax write off, right?

Speaker 1  48:17
Right? So, a business, when you get to this size, when you're when you're when you're talking about businesses that are over 1.5 you deal with it like you're going to be dealing with EBITDA more than you are just general cash flow. And the you can be a little bit more gracious on the multiple, because it's a larger business,

Speaker 3  48:41
and it's also fully absentee, like 100% what do you think, like a reasonable multiple is when you get to, like a bigger business that's fully absent too well?

Speaker 1  48:53
So they're saying last year the SDE was 813, right? So it still seems overpriced, but it's fully, completely absentee, where you don't have to do anything,

Speaker 3  49:07
nothing that doesn't according to the well, that doesn't exist.

Speaker 1  49:11
But, I mean, I know what you're saying. So like, you don't have to be there day to day. You somebody is controlling and operating every phase of the business.

Speaker 3  49:22
Just to add some context to it, he does have three locations throughout the state. This is one location I'm looking at. Below it are the numbers for another. He owns a real estate for the locations, so I think that's also part of the depreciation. That's why I asked, because if I won't be able to claim the real estate depreciating, right? And one of the problems that I think is why they told me they're very open in negotiations is unless I also buy the real estate, which I couldn't, because it's like 24 million in total for all the real estate. They want to lease it at 33,000 1000 a month, which is obviously very high and abnormal. So the rent for that area is normally around 10,000 a month. And, yeah, I mean, that's why they say it's absentee. All the businesses are like, managed. It's like an old guy, but it's kind of a, this is like, my last choice. It's like, very complicated.

Speaker 1  50:25
Yeah, yeah, the other two look like better opportunities. And this one right? So you would want to deal with EBITDA to make sure that your multiples right, because you don't care about the depreciation, because you won't get it, because you're not buying the real estate. So if the market value for that rent is more like $10,000 then I wouldn't even, I wouldn't want to enter into any kind of a contract with an owner of that, that believes that, you know, 300% over market value is fair, and would even be getting you to agree to that, I would run because that's just, that's just what they're saying right now. You know, there's a lot of ways that a seller can get you in a deal. They can, you know, not include all the FF and E and try to pull things out of the business to sell it on the side, like you have to be able to

Unknown Speaker  51:36
somewhat trust the seller,

Speaker 1  51:40
because contracts can keep you safe, but you're not impervious from theft and malfeasance there. You know the seller knows all the ins and outs of the business you're coming in, not knowing everything. So there are a lot of ways that they can exploit. You know, your ignorance of what's going on. So, yeah, I wouldn't even consider this one.

Speaker 3  52:06
I kind of had that same feeling just looking for someone to confirm it.

Unknown Speaker  52:13
Yeah. I mean, 300%

Unknown Speaker  52:15
over market value rent, huge red flag.

Speaker 3  52:19
The only reason I inquired more was because he said, very open negotiations, but at such a large gap, like, is it even worth asking if you would consider a reasonable rent, right?

Speaker 1  52:33
And, yeah. And, you know the Add backs, this does not count as an ad back. Yeah.

Speaker 3  52:39
I didn't think those made sense either. I wanted to ask. I don't understand all the terms there, so maybe you could kind of explain, like,

Unknown Speaker  52:48
Sure, so the the

Unknown Speaker  52:51
interest expense,

Speaker 1  52:54
so that means that he's paying, I guess he has a mortgage on the building itself, so that also that actually

Unknown Speaker  53:08
would not count either.

Speaker 1  53:10
Well, I take that back, because you wouldn't be paying that. So yeah, that's true, so that would be included, but the Depreciation Amortization would not

Unknown Speaker  53:22
the mean. Meals, and what is this other that's $223,000

Unknown Speaker  53:27
in other What the hell

Unknown Speaker  53:29
is that? Yeah, I had no clue.

Speaker 3  53:34
And then on the bottom for like, this other location, which I was also looking at, they have credits for PC insurance, PC legal, I don't know what those are, and they did have an expansion, and they charged like half the labor to each restaurant.

Unknown Speaker  53:56
And I think they added that back to the winter benefit.

Unknown Speaker  54:01
So they're leasing this, right?

Unknown Speaker  54:06
$37 a square foot.

Speaker 3  54:10
Yeah, I think that's what they're I'm not sure exactly. He just sent me like these forms, but he didn't really explain them, but it does say in the listing, like on their website, that the owner is looking to lease it at 33,000 a month on the sale, unless there's another listing with the real estate, which is at like 24 million. Okay, so I don't think I'll pursue this one any further, kind of just asking to learn about the depreciation, mainly, if that's unreal, add back or not.

Speaker 1  54:47
It's not. I mean, it would be if you're buying your real estate, but if you're not buying the real estate, it's not. They've confused things by showing you a business this large, they should be one. Dealing with the EBITDA. They shouldn't even be talking about SDE. So they're really pushing to sell the real estate too. That's what it looks like.

Unknown Speaker  55:13
Want to sell this, unless you want the real estate.

Speaker 3  55:19
Another kind of red flag about what's random to me is they have three locations, and the broker told me all three are open to sale, but he only has contracts to sell two of them, so he can't give me any info on the third one. Does that mean, like he just listed it with another agent? Or what could that mean,

Speaker 1  55:42
I don't know. Maybe this owner doesn't actually own all three fully. It might be a husband and wife, brothers, just, you know, partners. I don't know that. That's also fishy. There's just so many things that are confusing about this one, yeah, yeah. There are too many deals out there. I wouldn't

Speaker 3  56:11
I got you Yeah, had that feeling too, yeah. Just wanted to confirm I'm not Yeah, and it's big.

Speaker 1  56:19
I mean, you're talking about 3.5 million. That's that's not small. I mean, you're in the territory right there where private equity, you're going to be competing with them. Why haven't they bought this? That's true. Yeah, I would concentrate on the first two and just run from that third one.

Speaker 3  56:49
I see some other listings on bid myself for like auto and plumbing, but I don't know anything about auto and plumbing. Do you think no prior experience is like a bad idea to get into one of those categories.

Speaker 1  57:06
I mean, I did. I didn't really know much about him, but you know, that comes with a lot of pitfalls as well. Like, I think, I think it's not so bad, because they are industries that are easy to understand. You might not know. You know the intricate way that these repairs are getting done, and you know that plumbing is getting fixed and auto repairs are happening, but you understand that a customer comes in, they need something done. Or they, you know, you go to them and they need something done. An estimate is created. They agree to it, and it gets done, right? Like those things are pretty easy to wrap your head around. And all, all service industry businesses are based on that. I think you can, I mean, you can overcome that. You don't have to know, but it makes you really reliant upon your managers, and you have to get in there and learn a lot at the beginning of it, because you don't want to be ignorant to the day to day and how things work, like, like I said earlier, you know, I ask a lot of questions, and they think I'm an idiot at the beginning, but a month later, I understand how everything works.

Speaker 3  58:32
Yeah, I think I would have that same attitude, and I kind of have the excuse of being young, you know. So, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  58:41
I mean, it's uncomfortable, but it can be overcome. For sure,

Speaker 3  58:55
I do have a couple of non number questions, but if anyone else wants to jump in, or I don't know. I don't want to take, like, too long

Unknown Speaker  59:03
questions. Go ahead, shoot um.

Speaker 3  59:07
So the next thing would be, what do you ask your lawyer when you're when you were in the process of looking for one? How do you make sure they're a good one for your needs buying a business?

Speaker 1  59:21
So, so I want to know, have they been involved in acquisitions before? So, if they have, what size were they, what industries, you know, how many? Just, just, so I know I'm like, not the first person that they, you know, done, you know, any acquisition paperwork for and then I'll ask him things to prove that, like, you know, what was the what was something that you advise your client that may have saved them liability or money, they should be able to give you an. You know, some example of how you know there was this acquisition, and here was the purchase agreement. And we countered with this purchase agreement because whatever, because it reduced their liability, or it saved them money, things like that. You just want them to have first hand experience and real world examples of how they help their client to get through an acquisition. Just the same thing with an accountant, you know, I want to know that they deal with businesses. They deal with, you know, owners that have multiple businesses and different structures. And they know the difference between when you should use a C Corp, when you should use an LLC. They know about real estate taxes and short term rental loophole like all that stuff, like they should be able to freely speak from a position of knowledge about all that stuff, and write down questions. So if you call them, have it in front of you written down, like, this question, this question, this question, and grill them. It's a job interview. You're hiring them, you know, trust no one or trust and verify at least.

Speaker 3  1:01:18
Yeah, definitely. I wrote down everything you just said.

Speaker 1  1:01:21
So, yeah, but I, you know, and I have a good attorney that I use every time he's been involved in a lot of them, but I wouldn't want to use an out of state attorney. I would want to, yeah, an in state attorney that's been involved in acquisitions in that specific state. So I wouldn't use a national firm either. Gotcha?

Speaker 3  1:01:50
Yeah, what do you think is like, like, what is the average rate you see for like, a lawyer and an accountant?

Unknown Speaker  1:01:59
Hourly rate?

Speaker 1  1:02:00
Yeah, so it's going to be about 100 bucks an hour, at least for an accountant, and anywhere from two to 300 for a business attorney. But that's in my area. You know, when you everything's more expensive in California, Florida and New York. So, you know, add 25% or 50% to those. But like, expect to, expect to pay about 1500 bucks to an accountant, at least, to do pro formas and look at your look at the financials. And expect to spend about three grand, 2500 to three grand on an attorney for purchase agreements and looking over everything. Okay? And it's, it's a bitter pill to swallow to think, like, especially with the accountant, like, and they say, well, it looks good, I didn't find anything, and here's my bill. That sucks. But you know, when they do find something that's a different situation, like, it's it's worth it, and it's insurance. It's acquisition insurance, basically,

Speaker 3  1:03:07
yeah, that's true. I just kind of, like, I called some firm and got some, like, general consults. One was like 600 The other was 400 you know. So I think it's gonna be in that range, cheap for an

Speaker 1  1:03:22
hour. Oh, an hour. Oh, sorry, sorry, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:03:27
no, I'm a pre law student, so I kind of have interest in, like, the lawyers and,

Speaker 1  1:03:33
okay, I have a now, an accountant you can use from out of state. That's fine, but the attorney I would want in state. So the one I use. His name is Randy Snodgrass, and he's, he's in Missouri, so you can actually look him up, Google him, and he's great. I don't know. He's pretty, pretty down to earth. He's been involved in quite a few acquisitions. You might, you know, try him. It'd probably save you some money, but he's a good one.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:04
Yeah, definitely. I'll look into him for sure. Okay.

Speaker 3  1:04:16
Oh, another question. Sorry, I saw in one of your videos that you had, like a loi template, is there, like, somewhere on the website where you have, like a thing of templates? I couldn't find it?

Speaker 1  1:04:30
Um, yeah, it should be in there the community resources. Let's see if we can find them. I

Unknown Speaker  1:04:43
so the resource bundle, ah,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:46
I did not look there. I didn't see that.

Speaker 1  1:04:49
Oh, yeah, yeah. So all the good stuff is in the resource bundle. And if sometimes on your phone, you don't see this little sidebar, but if you scroll down to the this right here. To this post that's pinned. You can also get there go to the resource bundle, and you know, tons of stuff in here that you can use, templates, analyzation tools, calculators, a whole bunch of stuff. And somewhere in here there should be a loi somewhere, letter of intent, template, right there.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:29
Oh, perfect.

Speaker 1  1:05:52
Okay, does anybody have any more questions? Okay, good stuff tonight, guys, this was fun.
