Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody, it's the money Language Academy. This is Shane. We're going to start the mentorship Q and A. We already talked about some stuff, which is like the systems that are put in place when you first acquire business to systematize and automate things.

Unknown Speaker  00:20
I think there were some questions, Keith,

Unknown Speaker  00:24
did you have you had some questions earlier that you wanted to bring up,

Speaker 2  00:30
right? Let me think we get to I asked, Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, now I was just asking you on the side about just thinking about turning my home into a residential a senior care facility, just because it's very pop problem. Now here I'm in the Coachella Valley in California, and there's a lot of seniors, and there's a big demand for it. I already started the fire the county fire inspection process, and I don't really have a lot to correct so far, which is good. I have a friend out here, or, I guess, like acquaintance. He has, like, he bought, he actually bought a business. He bought a senior care facility business. I don't know if I want to do that. And he has like, four or five properties, which are all senior care facilities. So, yeah, you asked a really good question is, how do I like staff it and then find clients? I know that, like I said, I know there's a huge amount i here, so I'm not too worried about it. I'm just looking at getting through the licensing part. But I thought I have to look more into that too. And I know that there's agencies out here that that do do that, that specialize in that,

Speaker 1  01:32
in staffing and filling it, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  01:36
They're definitely in filling it. And also, I think it's staffing as well too, I'm assuming,

Speaker 1  01:40
yeah, okay, well, something like that. Like, it's the same thing in real estate. If, if you want to start like a, like a silver living, you want to take, like, a lot of people try to maximize their profit. If they're having difficulty turning a profit on a single family home that's large enough to house multiple people, then they'll think, Okay, I'll do a sober living or a communal living. So for sober living, what they'll do is they'll get a waiting list of people that are interested. Here's how the house is going to be. So before you, you know, you can gage like, Okay, this is how many people I might have. This is, you know, so you're not, you're not jumping into it with nothing, and, you know, paying that mortgage until you get people in there. So you might be able to do that with senior living too. I'm not sure, but that might be an idea to just a potential client base prior to signing any papers, you know, okay, I'm getting ready to do this. Going to be this much square feet. We're going to have these amenities, blah, blah, blah, you know, are you interested in because a lot of senior, senior care facilities have a big waiting list, you know, yeah. So you might be able to pluck people out of those waiting lists that you know, really, you know, their families need help taking care of them. So you could probably do that staff, staffing. I don't, I don't really know. I'm sure, because you don't have to have in your state, do you have to have, like, a nurse on staff, or do you, can you have a traveling nurse come in?

Speaker 2  03:10
And I would need some kind of, I would need someone who, yeah, traveling nurse, or someone, I think, who's just certified actually know if I need a traveling an actual nurse, but like, someone who's certified in, I guess, to take care of seniors.

Speaker 1  03:22
Okay, so you can, you can definitely get those from temp agencies, yeah, a lot of them. And you can, you, even if not a temp there's places like, I don't know if they have it out there, but like Phoenix, Phoenix Home Care, where you're you can, at least temporarily, you could hire them to come in and, you know, it's a different caregiver every time, but they, they're all certified, and they do whatever is required. Okay, you might be able to do that too.

Speaker 2  03:48
Yeah, I was also thinking, and then I changed my mind. I was thinking about because I have a studio apartment attached to my to my primary home of just having, like, a live in worker. But then I spoke with someone who specializes in more so, like studying for the estate license. They said it's probably not the best idea, because especially in California, it's, you know, if, if they quit and they're still living there, it's hard to evict it'll be hard to evict them. So I was, I'm just gonna rent that room out to another senior.

Speaker 1  04:16
That's it. Yeah, that's a good point, because especially in California, the eviction process is ridiculous.

Unknown Speaker  04:22
Yeah, it's long. So I'd rather, yeah, I'd rather avoid that.

Speaker 1  04:26
Yeah, yeah. Oh, it's a good idea, though. So do you think you'd make a lot? I'm sure you would make a lot more profit on that than you would short term rental. Or what about just communal living in general? I haven't looked at

Speaker 2  04:38
communal living on here. I don't know if it's the best market for it. I mean, the long term rent to markets not good where I'm at. It's more it's better midterm and short term rental is a little bit better. And I like my, for example, my studio apartment, it does pretty well. It's got, it's got, probably, like, a that's low, it's slower in the summers, but on average, like a 60 to 70% occupancy rate. It. So it does well, but I'm concerned about renting out the entire house just because, looking at, like, talking to other hosts around here, it's dead right now. I mean, some of the properties that I managed are doing okay, but I've had to lower the price a little bit, so I don't want to run into that, and I don't want to rent it long term, just because, again, it's not the best market in California. Is not the best with for owners out here. So I was thinking about, hey, maybe doing a senior care because, yeah, the numbers are very good for senior care, just the setup and the licensing.

Speaker 3  05:27
Okay, take some time. Makes sense, yeah?

Speaker 2  05:31
And then I sent the LOI to that smock shop owner,

Unknown Speaker  05:35
yeah, haven't heard anything. I

Speaker 2  05:37
haven't heard anything yet. I'll give them a call tomorrow. Okay, yeah, it's really, it's really weird. No response at all.

Speaker 1  05:44
Yeah, you just never know. I mean, selling a business takes a long time. I mean it really, you have to prep a business for about a year before you know. So maybe, maybe he just gave up, maybe, and if he's never there, he's probably not real motivated to sell. Yeah, that's true.

Unknown Speaker  06:06
Yeah, I'm gonna keep I'm still looking for other ones.

Speaker 1  06:11
What about everybody else? Are you looking on biz, buy, sell, biz, quest and Flippa and all the sites you you know? Do you have the searches set in place and getting notified? Is everybody doing that?

Speaker 4  06:28
No, I'm not yet. I just, I'm still learning, or I took to heart with your last class about, like, you know, writing down your skills or what fits, what doesn't, you know. So, no, I haven't started looking for that reason.

Speaker 1  06:42
Okay, so that's that brings up a great question. Diane, have you figured out, like, by your skill set and by last week's class, like, what would be a good fit? Have you do you have some ideas?

Speaker 4  06:55
No, because I've been on a big project and I've worked a lot of hours, job ate up my time, to be honest.

Unknown Speaker  07:00
Yep, stupid jobs, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  07:05
What about everybody else? Like,

Speaker 1  07:08
Have you, have you thought about that? Like, what's your what's the dream business to own? Not not like the flashy thing, but like, because of your skill set, because of what you're looking to do, because of your goals. What is that dream about? You? Ernie,

Speaker 5  07:30
for me, I did some e commerce, long way back when Amazon FBA was a big thing, but I canceled it. I lost, like, a lot of money on it, but I learned a lot. So I would say the dream thing would be like something scalable and also where I can use it, like, like you said, technology to automate things, and something maybe I can enjoy, like doing it. It could be, like, fixing cars, yeah, I like, fix it, fixed cars, yeah. So, like, auto shop. It could suit for me. But, like, I'm pretty open to like anything. So I don't want to have like fixed mindset just for the one particular business. So for me, like, like, new recordings, most important thing is just to have, like, good enough cash flow to pay the debt and also employees and have some something left for me so I can enjoy the time and family. I guess it's the same for everyone else? Yeah, I would say, like, apply all those, like, new tools on AI things, yeah, I enjoy, okay.

Unknown Speaker  08:54
What about everyone else? I

Speaker 1  09:04
Yadi, have you? Have you narrowed it down?

Speaker 6  09:10
I'm nowhere near ready to buy anytime soon yet, but I do. I'm looking every day. Just kind of take an idea for what's out there. I don't have a specific industry. But I know I want service. It could be, you know, sort of the things you you tend to focus on, it could be auto, it could be plumbing. It could be landscaping. My dad worked blue collar his whole life. I have family to have a couple of service business, like house cleaning business, commercial cleaning businesses. So that's just more my my area or what I would be interested in.

Speaker 1  09:46
That's good. I mean, I would encourage everyone to at least look at at businesses for sale, even if you're not real serious yet, just familiarize yourself with what's out there. So when you do become serious, you know, like, Okay. Okay, yeah, this business has been here for a long time. I've already looked at it three times. You know, it's not, it's not going to work. But just just to know, just like with real estate, you know, you have to practice determining what's a good deal and what's not a good deal, because there's plenty of stinkers out there, and

Speaker 6  10:20
I was surprised by that. There's definitely so many out there that the multiple is just not there, nowhere near where it should be,

Speaker 1  10:27
Yep, yeah, and, you know, they probably won't sell. I mean, I think they said only 30% of businesses that go for sale actually sell.

Speaker 6  10:41
30% Yeah. Do the others just end up closing.

Speaker 1  10:45
They dissolve the business. Does sell off the assets, and it just goes away. Wow. And it costs that cost owners a lot of money to do that a lot of time. And you know, they're not getting, they're not getting a reward at the end of that long journey. So it's pretty sad.

Speaker 6  11:03
Yeah, there's a lot of work that goes into, you know, starting a business from scratch. I've, I'm in corporate. I've been in corporate for almost 20 years, but I've always had a passion for wanting a business, but starting from scratch. I've seen family members do it. I've seen family members fell at it. It's just, I wouldn't want to start from scratch and just in my career in general, improving processes, you know, adding technology, finding gaps, becoming more efficient. I that's sort of what I focus on. So I think I could see myself buying a business and implementing some of those skills to, you know, become more efficient, make more money, cut costs, things like that.

Speaker 1  11:40
Yep, yeah. And you know, those business owners are not going to understand that at all. They think it's kooky. Like, you know, you bring AI into it. They're like, Oh, no, no way. No computer going to tell me what to do. But like, you know better, you know that these things can work if used the right way. So, yeah, there's always room.

Unknown Speaker  12:00
You're either you're either you're either innovating, or you get left behind.

Speaker 6  12:05
There's also a lot of businesses out there that I've seen. I definitely want something more absentee. I you know, I want to show up here and there, but for the most part, I don't think I'd be leaving my corporate job right off the bat. I've worked too hard to get it, to get to where I'm at to leave it right away. So I that's even harder to find, because a lot of what I see out there on the service side is very small businesses where the cash flow or the number of employees just wouldn't, wouldn't be optimal for that, right?

Speaker 1  12:34
Yeah. I mean, that's why I always say, you know, seven, seven employees, seven years like, it's impossible to make something absentee that's a couple years old or a year it's very It's not saying impossible, but not likely. It's just too volatile. But yeah, yeah, I get it. But I would say this though, when you're looking I look both with the absentee button pressed like the filter on biz by cell and without it, because sometimes you'll find one that is semi absentee that they didn't list like that, and you could turn it full absentee, or you can find one with good enough cash flow that you can bring an operator in still make it work for you.

Speaker 6  13:21
I definitely think for any out there that are not looking because you think you're not ready, I I think it helps. It helps. I look at all the things that you've, you've mentioned, you know, the number of employees, a number of years in business, the reason for, you know, for selling, I would recommend to everyone on the call to just, just go out there and look, you start to notice what you like and what you don't like by doing that. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  13:42
That, Yep, yeah, I agree.

Unknown Speaker  13:50
Did you find this business on biz? Buy, Sell.

Speaker 1  13:53
I did. I did. So this one was this one was weird because it didn't have a picture, it didn't have us, it didn't have an address. All it said was mid Missouri. It said establish auto repair shop, mid Missouri. And at the time it was coupled with the parts too, but it didn't, it didn't say anything about the parts. It just had the it didn't even have the cash flow. Initially, I was like, Well, okay, I'll just, I'll reach out and just see what happens. And they got back to me really quickly with an NDA, and got the financials to me. I was like, wow, this is a good one. But I think people, because it had not a lot of information on it, were kind of spooked, like they just didn't pursue it, you know? And then the whole secret, yeah, just that secretive nature of it, not even having the city. But this is actually, it's a it's about 40 minutes from my house to drive here, so it's not bad at all. Yeah, it sure was like, it was like pulling teeth, though, to get to get them to so it. What's funny is the owner, the previous the previous owner, he's still not telling people he sold it. If they ask him, he says, no, no, no. He said, That's news to me. That's what he tells people, come on, man, it's over like we signed the papers. It's done deal. He just, I don't know. He's just, that's how he is. Shane, I

Speaker 2  15:22
have a question. When purchasing, like, for example, purchasing your small first business, is it ideal to have it close, near you, within, like, a short driving distance, so you can manage it or take care of things you need to Okay,

Speaker 1  15:34
yeah, especially, especially the first one, because you know you're going to want to be more hands on, because you're learning so much. True, okay, there's so much to learn that you don't want it too far away. You don't want to have it like a two hour drive to get there and you got to, you know, just think about that. You know, the first couple weeks you know, you're driving two hours there, two hours back, or you're staying overnight somewhere. That's that

Speaker 2  16:00
sucks, yeah, okay, that makes sense.

Speaker 5  16:15
Quick question, do you have to have, like, some kind of, like policy insurance like umbrella in order to purchase this business.

Speaker 1  16:24
Yeah, absolutely so. So there's, you have to have insurance before you even lease a commercial space. Generally, in the lease there's, they'll lay out exactly what type of insurance that they require you to have. So you have to make sure when you get the insurance just on the building and whatever's going on inside the building, that you meet those requirements at least. And then you have to have workers compensation insurance if you're going to have employees, you know you have to have that too. So I've been again, the same, the same insurance provider, and I went to somebody else. I went to a different broker that specializes in commercial but it ended up being travelers, which is the same one that I use for my rentals, the same one that I use for my home, my personal home, because that's the AI driven insurance company where they can give you much better deals because they don't have all those employees and brick and mortar places. And I was, I was actually, this is one of those things that I was concerned about, because I know insurance has been consistently going up over the years, and you don't know until you get your quotes. So the week before, when I when I got the what they wanted, the the the amount of coverage and everything. Because this is this building is probably a $6 million building. I would, I would imagine, I mean, it's, it's huge, it's the best location. I mean, all like I, I wouldn't even, I it would be at least 5 million to buy this building for sure. So I want to, I definitely want good insurance. And they were paying for both, both workers compensation and for the just the liability and everything in this place, for less coverage than I'm getting, they were paying, I think it was $18,000 a year. 18 something I'm paying for better coverage with this other company, workers compensation and everything. 11,000 so there you go. That's just, that's more cash flow, you know, immediately, and better coverage. That's just because he's been using the same insurance company for 30 years and didn't want to switch American family. I dropped them long time ago.

Unknown Speaker  18:42
The one that is Costco, right? I think

Unknown Speaker  18:46
is that American family and Costco are together

Unknown Speaker  18:50
at one point. Yes, they could be

Unknown Speaker  18:53
different. Now

Unknown Speaker  18:56
I'm not, yeah, I'm not sure,

Speaker 1  18:59
but yeah, I was really happy with the quote I got and the coverage and everything. So it really pays to use a an insurance broker, because insurance for these places is pretty expensive too, because you have employees driving cars too. They have to drive the car around the block and test it. They have to drive and go get parts or whatever, you know. So that makes it way more expensive, too. And usually they want to know, they want copies of the driver's license of all the drivers. I didn't have to do any of that. It's great. Thanks. That's a good question. Yeah, yeah. And that's something that I should have put that on the list of things you do beforehand. That's that's one that you can because I did have to go get quotes. Yep.

Speaker 4  19:53
Do you have a list somewhere? Is this documented in all those documents on the drive?

Speaker 1  19:58
No, this was the first time I've. Actually put that out. And because I was here all day, I didn't do the spreadsheet, or not the spreadsheet, but the slide show. So you'll just, yeah, I will. I'll copy this out and put it in a bullet list and drop it in the community doc so we have it. And hopefully, when I'll do it, I'll put it in the summary of the video too. That way you can kind of see it if you don't want to go back and watch it again.

Unknown Speaker  20:30
Well, I'll have a I summarize it for me.

Speaker 1  20:39
It's all about time management, right, saving yourself time.

Unknown Speaker  20:46
Then the insurance broker was

Speaker 1  20:50
winter dent. And I don't know if it's local, I mean, it's they had had a place here, and they had one. And the city where I live, the travelers is nationwide. That's That's it. So I would imagine you can pretty much use any broker and still possibly get a traveler's policy. But yeah, it was winter dash dent. I don't

Unknown Speaker  21:21
remember if it was de or DI. Or D,

Speaker 5  21:31
I n t. What about the lease? So do you have to create a new lease, or you just take over the existing one year?

Speaker 1  21:39
It's a new lease. Yeah, well, you would be, I would have this one is a new lease. I would have been taking over a lease had the owner, he owns this building, so he didn't even have a lease. He was paying himself rent to his management company for tax reasons and because he was prepping to sell. But generally, you know, you inherit, just like with with a rental, you know, if, if somebody sells you a rental, and somebody's living there already, you inherit that, that tenant. It's the same thing here, like I would inherit that lease, but a lot of times, you know, they'll have right of refusal on the leases. You have to deal with that otherwise, because if you don't meet their criteria, you can't you know that the actual lease is in the purchase agreement, so there'll be a copy of it there. You have to meet all of that as part of your contractual agreement. So this one was a brand new, fresh lease that we signed that was, that was probably the hardest negotiation, was figuring that out how much I'm going to pay for rent, how much because so it's a 10,000 square foot building. I'm currently leasing 7500 square feet of it. The other 2500 is is parts or with the previous owner. And so we also negotiated, after a year, the option to lease that, and then the extra 2500 if things didn't work out with this owner and it got too wonky, I'm on a month to month on this 2500 so if I needed to back down and go to just the 5000 square feet and bunker down for a while, you know, make sure that That was it just maximize profit there. I could do that. And I have in the lease. It's a non they, if I do that, they have to lease it only to a non competitive business. So it can't be anyone in auto sales, auto repair, auto anything, even though the building is set up for that, they can't do that. So we were able to negotiate that you're always trying to keep yourself safe and give yourself options. I don't care what it is, what kind of investment or deal you need to have an exit strategy, no matter what it could be, the best investment possible. But you have to keep yourself safe enough and think about all the bad things that could possibly happen. What if the manager leaves? What if these numbers are, you know, aren't, aren't right. What if people, because the owner is established, and they find out that he sold to some, you know, new person, that they stopped coming and the business drastically reduced. You know, you have to think about all the what ifs and try to have a way to mitigate those risks. Very important. But you know your lease, your lease, aside from your payroll, your lease, is going to be your biggest expense by far,

Unknown Speaker  24:30
yeah, and it's a three year lease,

Speaker 1  24:36
three year lease, and one of our sticking points was the amount of that lease to begin with, and then the renewal terms, how we would set the price after the three years. Because a lot of landlords will say, and commercial landlords, especially when they you know, he knows how much potential is in this business. So he knows that in three years. Course, I could be making a lot more money, so they're going to want to put something in there where they can really juice the rent in three years. And you know, you have to negotiate that down. So it's all about fair market value and knowing what it should be and how much it raises every year. Because, you know, that's a business too. They're They're definitely running a business, but you can't let it break you. And they'll try. They'll definitely try.

Unknown Speaker  25:32
So you're not going to buy the building.

Unknown Speaker  25:35
Probably not. I

Unknown Speaker  25:38
just if I can,

Speaker 1  25:43
I'll say, Well, for one thing, they probably won't sell, because his son, his son, that's what he wants to do, is real estate. He doesn't want anything to do with auto repair, but he loves the real estate and the commercial buildings and all that stuff. So I doubt he would ever sell, but so much so much so that they wouldn't even put a right of first refusal in there, like, if they were going to sell, like, I would, you know, at least be able to make an offer, like, so I don't, I don't think there's any chance of that, but, you know, I would always entertain it. You know, a few years from now, if something happened, yeah, I would definitely entertain it. If the numbers work, the numbers work because then you get all the tax benefits of ownership. But, yeah, it's a, I don't know it's a big building in a nice part of town. Yeah, yeah, he's definitely gonna keep hanging around that way he can. He can keep his hooks in me. Yep. Anybody else have any questions? David, I don't think did we get a chance to meet you.

Unknown Speaker  27:10
Hi, hey,

Speaker 7  27:13
um, I'm just joined the group I just joined there was this week.

Speaker 1  27:19
Yeah, okay, cool. Are you interested in buying a business or real estate? What's your goal in the community? Buy a business? Okay, awesome. Have you been able to find everything in the community, like the resources and the videos and everything? Yes, okay, cool.

Unknown Speaker  27:39
Awesome. Well, welcome. Thank you,

Speaker 1  27:49
Aaron, we already met you, right? We meet you last week. There were two errands last week, right?

Unknown Speaker  27:57
Are there two errands this week? Sure

Unknown Speaker  28:01
you're talking about talking to me.

Speaker 8  28:04
I've been on most of your lives, but I did sign up to the community like several weeks ago. But yeah, I've been going through the course little by little, and just kind of looking around businesses nearby, finding ndda is just seeing what, you know, what's, what's the round? I don't know if that's the right order, but I'm curious of mainly, you know, a lot of businesses in California, they're requiring licenses. So it's yeah, you know, might run into Yeah, into something there, because I don't have any licenses, like contractor licenses like contractor licenses and stuff like that. I imagine it's different per state,

Speaker 1  28:44
but it is. It's a very different state to state. You know, anything on either coast is much more regulated than stuff in the middle. It just, that's just kind of how it goes. But then there's way more money on the coast than there is in the middle too. So it's a trade off, gotcha,

Unknown Speaker  29:05
what type of business are you interested in?

Unknown Speaker  29:10
Well, um,

Speaker 8  29:14
it doesn't I mean, basically, just following your, your your path, anything that can be absentee, but also started looking also on Flippa. I almost bought a business on Flippa couple of years ago. That was e commerce business that's kind of my my background is internet advertising and marketing. Okay, so,

Speaker 1  29:44
well, I mean, there you go. You could, you could buy e commerce from a different state, right?

Unknown Speaker  29:50
That's, yeah, that's definitely a possibility.

Speaker 8  29:53
Yeah, seemed like a lot on flip over. We're above that. That 3x Yeah.

Speaker 1  30:00
There's a lot of what they call blue sky in any e commerce and tech business. You know, they're, they're, they're selling the potential rather than the actual numbers.

Speaker 3  30:12
Yeah. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  30:21
yeah. I mean, I don't

Speaker 1  30:24
me personally. I want to, I'm buying the business for its current state. I don't want to factor emit, no, maybe a little bit, you know, if I know, if I know, a business is close to the numbers, like, maybe it's 3.1 on the multi, you know, the multiplier, something like that. But there's so much room for growth then maybe, but I'm not going to, I'm not going to break those rules, because those rules keep you safe. You know me. That's me personally. Now if, if you know, you bring a different skill set than I bring because you, you know, internet marketing and all that. So if you were to buy e commerce, you already have a skill set that's exactly suited for that business, right? So you would know if that's lacking and if your skill set would be able to grow that business quickly. So it, you know, these are all just, these are guidelines that I use. That doesn't mean that everyone has to use them. You know, it's like, you find something and you feel like it's worth it, then it's worth it.

Unknown Speaker  31:28
It's a it's a very personal choice.

Unknown Speaker  31:42
All right. Anybody else have any questions? Okay?
