Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane from the money Language Academy. Today is June 26 2025 and what we're going to be talking about tonight is more in the business acquisition section, doing this class from the latest acquisition, which is a auto repair shop. And it's not, not, let's see. I bought this last Thursday, which was a holiday, and when we were going through and doing all that, we didn't, we didn't factor that holiday into it, so that that was a little bit of a snag. Yeah, we didn't think about it. We were just trying to close because I had to leave and go. So next month I have some traveling I need to do, so I wanted to close as quickly as I could. So we moved the timeline up. It was going to be July 1, which would also have been a challenge because of Fourth of July, but it would have probably been better than actually closing on a holiday. But tonight, what I wanted to talk about was a few things. One, some due diligence that a lot of people don't think about, or they don't teach about, honestly, because probably a lot of people aren't actually buying businesses. They just talk about it so they have never been through the process, and they don't, they don't that little nitty gritty stuff that can really save you from getting into a bad deal, or at least identifying things that you need to fix when you get in there that can be like the nitty gritty due diligence, which due diligence, for anybody that's watching or on here that's new is just your process of making sure that it makes The money they claim it makes, making sure that it's a solid business, that there are no pitfalls anywhere that you can fall into, that there, you know, there's no lawsuits pending. There's no just red flag, you know, bombs that are waiting around a corner. You know, you have to sniff all that stuff out. Look under every, every rug and and, you know, really get in there and check things out. Due Diligence will will save you in the long run. It's a lot of work, and sometimes you get all the you get very close to a deal, and you find something, it's a heartbreaker, because you put all that money into where the time into it, and maybe you've got an attorney, maybe, you know, you've done whatever you but at the end of the day, you know you're not you're never going to regret a bad deal that you didn't make, but you'll regret a bad deal that you did make. So it's worth it, but, yeah, it's you can't spend too much time on do it due diligence. And so we're going to talk about that, and then we're going to talk about some of the challenges with this particular acquisition that I want to talk about, kind of a mistake that I made that I won't make again. But yeah, that's that's the plan here tonight. So for the non obvious due diligence, what I'm going to give you is, so obviously, you're going to go through all the financials, you're going to look at all the bank statements, you're going to check all that out make sure there's not a lot of debt, all the regular things that everybody pretty, pretty much knows about. But at some point, when you get toward the end the business, the standard operating procedures of the business become very important. So what I like to do is I want to walk in the customer's shoes from beginning to end all the way through the process. So if it's landscaping, I want to get on the website, and I want to schedule a quote, you know, like a free quote. I want to come to my house tell me how much it's going to be. I want to see what that quote looks like when I get it. And then I'm going to actually have them come and do the service, right? They don't. They don't know. I'm going to buy the business, you know, no one. None of these owners generally let their employees know that's being sold. And with landscaping, you don't really meet the employees. So here I came in and met the employees, but they still didn't know I was going to buy the business. It wasn't even talked about. I was a consultant, is what I was supposed to say. So you want to run that all the way through, all the way through, from the service to you get the invoice, you pay the invoice, and then you can see the whole process. So for one you can see how easy it was to find them, how easy it was to get them to come out and do the quotes, how easy it was, you know, what kind of service, quality of service, the payments that that happen. You know when, when they're there, I'm going to, I'm going to ask them questions. I'm saying, you know, what kind of payments are there? I want to know how much the employees even know about the business. You know, is it some kid that's going to knock siding off my house when, you know, with the tremor, stuff like that, you know, like, how, how good are they at what they do? And with this business, I did that, I I had to my brakes were squeaking a little bit. I didn't need breaks, but I brought it in. So I made an appointment online. I found that when I made the appointment online, nobody called me, like, nobody like, I put a like, a request in there for an appointment, nobody called me. Okay, well, there's something we're going to have to work on, so I'm. Um, it was funny, because I talked to the owner and I told him about that, and within an hour, somebody called me and they were in trouble because they hadn't gone they had been missing those emails. So there's one thing I just know I have to fix initially to make sure that they're keeping up with those emails. They're used to getting phone calls. They're used to people calling in, scheduling service like that, but not everybody's going to do that. So then bring my vehicle in, and I sit in the waiting room, you know. And but they know me at this point, so I'm talking to them. It gives me a chance to ask questions about the business. Get to know them a little bit better, you know, because they'll tell you their whole life story. People will do that. If you're just, you know, if you care to listen, and that stuff is, is important in that rapport. Because if they already feel like they know you then a week later, two weeks later, when you come in and say, Yeah, you know, I purchased this business, I'd like you to work for me, then they feel more comfortable like, well, that guy's, you know, he's not horrific, at least not yet. But so, yeah, you go through that process, they do the service, and then did they do a good job? Is there grease all over the inside of my vehicle? How long did it take them the invoice process? You know, was I able to use Apple Pay in the shop, like all that kind of stuff? It's just so easy to see from the customer side what's going on. And you know what to fix. So that was one thing I knew I knew I needed to fix, right there, service they did, which is the most important thing to me, right there, was the service was great. They were quick. The mechanic was very knowledgeable. He told me exactly what he did, what the problem was, that, you know, a nice invoice with all the parts and, you know, and I went and checked the prices on the parts, like, if I were to bought to have bought those parts myself, what was it going to be? You know, they're all obviously going to be more expensive from the shop, but just a little bit, not too much more, and all those things checked out. So that was like one of my, my last phases, right there. But what's very important too is, how do they acquire customers? So when you look at their their web presence, you know, are they getting customers from Google ads? Are they getting customers from Facebook? Are they do they have commercials on the radio? Is it just word of mouth? Is it because they've been there for 100 years and everybody knows who they are and they've been dealing with the same families? Or is it all those things like, that's that's that's another thing, because one of the most expensive things in business is customer acquisition. So you're going to pay for it one way or the other. You're either going to pay for a business that has a lot of customers, you're going to pay more for it, or you're going to pay Google for your ads. You're going to pay the radio whatever. I don't like radio ads, but you're going to pay somebody to get them, and then the reviews. The reviews are very important, so go look at all the Google reviews. Run them down. See how many they have, how long it is, what they say this. It was one really bad review on this place that had a picture of the owner, the old man owner, throwing a piece of paper at somebody. Right now, I asked them about that. And I mean, it was something where they were going back and forth. It was like six years old. And yeah, you know, he's, he was kind of known to be a jerk, but a jerk that does affordable auto repair that's high quality, right? So that was a decision I had to make. Well, is, can I overcome those reviews? And yeah, you can overcome reviews, especially, you know, if you say you're the new owner, and you know, same quality service, but but better customer relationships, stuff like that. So that was something that I had to look into. But you want to know about those reviews, because really what you want to look at is the quality of service in a place like this. Are the reviews bad because someone was a jerk to them? Or are they bad because the service was bad? You know, because it's a way easier to fix a reputation for an owner being mean and persnickety than it is for just putting trash services out there. Because if you have a reputation for doing trashy work, I'm not going to buy the business. You can't overcome that. You have a stigma because you're you buy an established business because everybody knows it and it has you buy that reputation. I don't want to buy a reputation for bad service and check all of them. Trust pilot, Google, Yelp, Google, you can, it's easier to overcome reviews on Google, trust pilot and and Yelp, you can't solicit reviews. It's not like you know they either. You know they're they're signed into Yelp and they do a review. And Yelp reviews tend to be way lower than Google, because people only go on there when they're really pissed off, and that's when they want to yell at you. So be, be ready for those to be more critical than Google reviews, yeah. And, you know, use the service for sure, and then so, so those are the like, the ones that are not obvious, but that's like my last stage. You know, we're in the purchase agreement phase. We're getting ready to see. Sign that kind of stuff, and then all that stuff checks out. Then it's like, Okay, we have the closing date. What's the next few steps? The next few steps are critical because it helps you hit the ground running. When you start the first one is going to be, you know, obviously, you probably already have a business bank account. You want all that set up. You want your debit card ready to rock. You want to make sure that that you have, if you're going to use a payment processor like Stripe or Clover or whatever, that's already set up an account, and it's connected to that bank account and ready to go. So you can switch all that stuff over day one. You You definitely want to get the tax ID so you already have an EIN when you created your LLC, but you might not have a state tax ID, so you need a regular tax ID for the state, and you need a sales tax ID generally, especially for a business like this, because you get a sales tax ID. Auto repair shops, you know, we sell parts, so you buy parts without taxes. You sell them to the customer, the customer pays taxes on it. You become not like a middleman, kind of in that, that relationship there, because you don't want to pay taxes on it, and then they pay taxes on it too. So you want to have all that stuff set up. And the forms, it's a

Unknown Speaker  11:16
in this state, it's a 149

Speaker 1  11:19
as of the form where you fill it out, and basically it just says, Here's my state sales tax ID. Here vendor. You don't have to charge me. I'm exempt, and then you're good to go. You also want any certifications and your business license for that city. You want all that set in place and ready to go. You don't have to wait on that stuff, because if an inspector shows up. Doesn't matter. You know if you just bought it or not, you know you're gonna, they're gonna ticket you or possibly shut you down if you don't have that stuff ahead of time. So and it's all things that you can get before you actually close, because you've already if you buy it of an asset sale, you register as a do a DBA or a fictitious name, depending on what state you're in, of whatever the business name is. So all that's have to be set up as well. And then a W, a bunch of W nines that are filled out and ready to go, because they want to know, you know, who they're going to pay, like you're going to be a 1099, to somebody. So you just don't want to have to scramble to get those things in that moment when you're trying to do 100 other things. So you can, can set that stuff up already. And then once you step in, you know, the first thing you want to do is get your payroll ready that usually companies pay on one week or two week arrears, which means they're paying today or work done two weeks ago or one week ago. So you have a cushion there, but you need to get it set up as soon as possible, because you don't want any delay. But if you're going to use gusto, or what's the other one, ADP, you have to have it set up and ready to go, because they have to onboard your employees. They got to do W fours, they got to do all that stuff. And the quickest way to lose an employee is to jack up their pay. You know, if they if they can't trust you with their paycheck, then you're going to have a hard time keeping them. So you do all of that due diligence, and then you set everything that you can set. You register everything you can register ahead of time, and you get the POS system. Make sure that you have your own card reader. It's very hard to transfer their card reader, like, if they're using clover, or they're using, you know, one of those where it's all built self contained, it's difficult to move that over. So you just want all new stuff. If you know they have different vendor accounts. You can go ahead and set those up ahead of time, sign into all that stuff, and it's all boring, mundane stuff. But if you don't, if you don't do it ahead of time, you're, you're going to be hating life for like, two weeks, you know? But you can, you can get it all set up and ready to go before you step in. And then you can do the things that are most important, which is getting comfortable with the client and with the employees. You know, getting comfortable with just the day to day operations. And because you're here every day, you see the problems that come up. You see where things need to be fixed, but you don't. You don't fix anything now, the first two weeks, you don't change anything, okay, because you're dealing with the old owner, you know, there's a transition. You're just learning everything you can learn about the business. You can change it later. Because, why? Because we bought a good business that already makes money. You know, if you don't change a darn thing, it makes money. So if you bought that, a business like that, you don't have to worry about changing it. That can come later, then the merchant, merchant accounts, and have all that ready, and then all of your vendor accounts. So that would be the last few stages. And then you just sit back and see where you can optimize, make sure that your operator, your manager, whatever you. Gonna call them. Knows what's expected of them. So like I told you guys before this, I had this operator sign an employment agreement. We actually had to negotiate a little bit back and forth, but he gets 10% of the net profit every month as a bonus. That's how I keep him engaged. That's how you know, he's incentivized to grow the business. He's ready. He's he was the conversation before closing on this could not have gone better. He was so excited to be rid of the old owner. Okay, and now we're going to talk about the mistake that I made. Okay, this, this owner, he's about five foot two. He's 80 years old. He's he's an immigrant. He came over with nothing. It's a, it's a total rags to riches story. He came over. He had one he bought one toolbox. He had been a mechanic since he was 12 years old. He came over when he was like 21 and started this shop. This shop has generated enough revenue over his lifetime that he owns 25 commercial buildings in the heart of the city. 25 he's a multi millionaire, but you would never know to look at this guy. He drives a 1986 Toyota two wheel drive that looks like somebody's taking a baseball bat up and down the sides of it. But trust me, he's got all the money he can, he can ever want or need. But he runs this place, and has run this place like, like a drill sergeant in a lot of ways. And he's so set in his ways. And the deal that we made deal is, you know, I would just wanted the auto repair shop. I didn't want to buy all he's got a lot of old parts that I don't think will sell. So even though the margins are good, I don't want to sit on a store room full of parts that are going to take years to sell. I don't care what the margins are, because I can make money with auto repair in there today, if those things are cleared out. So the the deal we made was he wasn't going to add any more to his inventory. He was going to continue to run the auto parts part. We have an exclusive deal where I buy the auto parts from him. He sells them to me for 20% higher, and then I mark them up whatever below list price. That the whole thing, the problem is, is I can't keep him out of the operations, you know, and I'm also, I have this deal with him that for a year, he's selling me these parts. So he's, it's killing him that I'm making, you know, that I'm running the business, and he doesn't like even though I haven't really made any changes, any minor change is like, the end of the world to them, and now we're kind of where, you know, we have this deal. So I'm kind of stuck with them, stuck dealing with them. So it more difficult for me to transition out. So what I talked to him about is, we're going to sell or finance those parts that I want. I'm going to have an inventory company come in. They're going to inventory everything. So I know exactly what's there. The parts manager is going to basically appraise them by the current value, and we're going to make a deal from that point, because I want to get him out as soon as we can, because I think it's good. It's going to be a headache. He's probably the the most stubborn owner I've ever dealt with. So the quicker the better to get him out. But at the same time, I have already learned a ton from this guy in just how to do things. And inevitably, this always happens to sometimes you learn about in due diligence, sometimes not until you actually get in, which is a good thing, but these older owners, they don't they, they don't pay their taxes, right? Okay? They just don't they, they don't record all of their earnings. So you have to find those things, because I want to keep myself safe. You know that the numbers of the business are the numbers of the business. I've already considered this to be a good deal if it makes the money that it's projected to, I'm happy, you know, I'm not. I'm not trying to get a bajillion dollars out of every deal. But what you'll find is there's a lot of anything that there's cash involved. Owners generally just pocket that cash and it doesn't get recorded anywhere. And you you have to break those systems and and go the other direction with it. But it's good because it's unaccounted for cash flow that, you know, it's a bonus, but you have to figure out how you're going to if it's a cash only business, you know, parts of it, like, how are you going to harness that in to where it becomes a regular part of your business model. So yeah, that I have not bought a business from a boomer yet that didn't have some aspect of cash that they were pocketing somewhere. They just can't help themselves. They can't so i. Yeah, so beware of that, because I will probably just go to no cash here. And I don't think it's going to stop those sales. It just makes it to where it's more traceable. And I like no cash because the employees are not, you know, you don't have to worry about the a bunch of cash in the cash register, or them going to the bank. You know, it just takes all of that fear and doubt out of there. You just don't have to worry about it. No one's going to steal a check. What are they going to do with the check? So all you have to do is just, you know, watch the equipment and things like that. But we're talking about big, huge welders and everything. No one's going to take that out, you know, like, yeah, so that's always going to come up in every deal, at least it has for me. So that was I wanted to let you guys know. You know, these things aren't always perfect, and they can be frustrating, but if it's a good deal, you can overcome these obstacles. And because he wouldn't do seller financing before, but seller financing was not an option for this business or for the parts business, not at all. And now that I've actually closed on this business, he's willing to do it, because he sees that. I think he sees that, you know, things are going to be okay, not going to drive the business into the ground. I listen to him. I respect him. I respect his whole struggle, how he's been able to do the things he's done. But it's killing him to see someone else running it, so I think he's more willing to do that now, and he knows that I'm good for the money, you know, like he can trust me and I'm not just somebody that's coming in with with with no resources and no way to pay this stuff back. So yeah, so if nothing else. It's gotten me to a point where, as long as we can come up with a number, which I believe we can, then I will, seller will do. Seller financing on those parts going to be substantial. It's going to be a pretty big chunk, but he doesn't require any down payment, so I'm fine with that, like it's not requiring any extra capital. For me, it's just going to be a larger payment, but also I get all the profit from those parts, which the margin is generally 50% on those parts that he's had for a long time. Very hard to find parts, and the things I don't want. He's going to take those parts, move them to a building that's behind and try to sell them. He's going to hire an employee and sell them over there. So we'll modify our original contract, where he has to sell parts to me and me only, and then we'll move forward from there with him out of the business completely. So that was a that was a lesson learned on my part. The other auto repair shops don't even have parts like they have a small amount of parts that just get included in the deal, oil and filters and all the regular stuff that you would imagine. They would have some brake pads, stuff like that. But this was really one of the larger parts stores for, like, imports, VW parts, classic Doom Buggies, things like that. It's like, only he has these parts, a lot of them. So yeah, lesson learned. You know, I won't, won't do that again, but it's still going to work out. I So yeah, there you go, guys, it's not all, it's, it's, there's always going to be something that comes up. And half of being a business owner and buying businesses is just being able to to be confident that whatever happens, you can figure it out, and that you bought a good deal, and that because you bought a good deal, you can overcome the other stuff. Even if the manager were were to walk out tomorrow, like what, you know, you can overcome it because you have other good employees. Because during due diligence, you talk to them, you know, there's another guy or another lady that can step up and become that person. So, yep, don't let it spook you, because it still works out. Thanks for sharing. Shane, yeah, yeah, no problem. Anybody have any questions you want to make fun of me for messing up?

Speaker 2  23:56
Did you give that manager that 10% was that on the entire business, or didn't you say previously, is 10% over anything above what you're currently making, like the growth? I guess you could say,

Speaker 1  24:09
well, I was actually so the original deal was going to be a slight raise, and then 10% 10% if he grows the business, right? But because we would have to compare it to last year. There's this in the accountant informed me of this. There's no way, because the business has grown this whole year. There's no way to compare it to last year without it being growth. So I took that part out, and instead, I kept his the pay exactly the same, and just added the 10% so no regular raise. And really, he would have signed on without it. He didn't even, I think he doesn't. He doesn't really understand the bonus or the the 10% he would have been much happier if I just gave him a and we ended up doing that a base salary, like what he's currently making. He wanted, he wanted to, because they had a bonus structure in place. He wanted for that to be. Moved, and he know exactly how much he clears every single week, so it's be the exact same number every single week, which ended up being $24 more than he was making before. So, but that's what he wanted. He wanted consistency. And you know, and I think he's a he's just from the little I've been around him. He's awesome. He's got big ideas. He's we're aligned in in strategy already. We're not going to do anything yet, but like, we're ready to go so, so no, it's, it's a full, full 10% first month. Yep, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  25:43
Anybody else have any questions,

Speaker 3  25:47
and that scenario with the 10% of just adding on to this, so would you be? Would it work out? And so it would be your salary plus employee wages, and whatever is left over after that, he gets 10%

Speaker 1  26:04
okay, yeah, because my salary would come out out of a net profit, okay, yeah, yeah, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  26:17
Do you do that in all your businesses? Or,

Speaker 1  26:20
I like if it's a good manager. And I yeah, I want to keep them engaged. Now, the difference between this one is I actually put it as a condition in the purchase agreement. Most owners don't go for that, but they knew, they knew this guy would. It was crazy our conversation, though, so he was the first one I talked to. I took him outside on closing day, and I said, Hey, you know, I just wanted you to know that I'm planning on purchasing this business, and I'd like to, you know, keep you on as the GM, and we grow this business together. I'm confident in your abilities enough that I'm willing to structure and an employer, an employment agreement to where as this business grows, you make more money, you get a piece of the profit. And his jaw just went like he had none of the employees here had any idea that the business was for sale, that it was even they thought the the old man was going to stay here forever and like, yeah, even everyone in in this city, as I'm going and changing the vendor contracts around, they're like, who sold what he sold that business? How'd you guys keep that under wraps? Yeah, like, they did a good job of hiding it. But, and then, because I wanted to gage his reaction, I wanted to see, is he going to be scared, or is he going to be, you know, be sad that the old and what I got was that they, it was a happy, sad. They're happy that he's retiring, but he's like, a fixture in this community, you know. So it's, it's also sad at the same time. So, but yeah, they were excited for things to modernize, and, you know, has to take this place to the next level.

Speaker 4  28:03
So, yep, I get that happy sad because, you know, leaving a place you've been at for 21 years, and they keep calling, but, you know, I still help. But I gotta message her up before we come on that. Oh, we miss you. I don't have email not to anymore. It is like, yeah.

Speaker 1  28:30
I mean, you become friends with those people, like close friends you. You spend more time a lot of time with your co workers, sometimes than you do with your family, depending on the job. Exactly. Yeah, yeah, totally. And you know this, this owner was like a father to a lot of these people. He, you know, the employees, he would loan him money, he would help them out, you know, he, he was very stern, but at the same time, he's got a big heart. He was helping homeless people out in the community, like, you know, he, he's, I don't know, he's a, he's a, he's a good guy. He's a complicated guy, but with a big heart.

Unknown Speaker  29:04
Yeah. How many employees did have seven?

Speaker 1  29:11
Seven? Yep, one of them is actually he's he's paying that person their salary. So I'm paying I haven't started yet. Next week I'll be paying for six because, you know that he still got, has to have an employee to deal with the parts, selling those parts as he gets rid of all those so, so yeah, and you know, and as he stopped needing that person, then they were going to be a customer service person for me. So they were going to still keep their job.

Speaker 5  29:45
Yeah, Hey, Shane, so are you going to have to share financials with that manager to prove his bonus? Yeah?

Speaker 1  29:52
Yeah, he it'll come directly from the accountant. They'll provide him with the not a breakdown. But, but just the, you know, he doesn't have to know exactly where all the money's going, but a simplified profit and loss statement so he can see, you know, this is the this is the amount of revenue that came in. Here's the expenses and here's the profit.

Unknown Speaker  30:16
Got it thank you. And

Unknown Speaker  30:19
that was all in the employment agreement.

Speaker 3  30:24
Also. Shane, have you ever had any problems with giving that phantom equity in the sense that you know, if you're ever you know when you're sharing part of that profit? Any you know, any business expensive business expenses, expenses outside of normal operations, like maybe buying workers meals or just any you have to keep a strict sort of budget on it. You can't put any loans in your name on the business you know, just so that to keep them happy with the profits they're seeing.

Unknown Speaker  30:58
No, no. I mean,

Speaker 1  31:02
they, you know, I shared my vision for what this place needs to be. You know, what I want it to be. And it's the same, same vision that they have. So this, if they see this all the way through in the next three to five years, their their life should be changed, as you know, as much as anybody's, because they'll be running one of the largest places in town, they'll be making substantially more than any other manager of similar places. But no never, never had any, any issues with that at all. And we don't do the meal thing. Like, there's no reason for a business like this to ever buy a bunch of stuff like that. Like, that, like we want to have a little party or something appreciate, you know, just bring some pizzas in or whatever. That's not going to be a big deal. But, you know, maybe if we got a truck at some point, you know, that would cut into it. But no, I mean, I It's a piece of the profit. It's not equity. So it's not like they have any say in, in what goes on, it's and, you know, it's a hardcore non compete clause. If he gets terminated for, for whatever reason, he cannot do anything in this industry, in this county,

Speaker 6  32:14
for five years, for five years. Well, and he's incentivized, isn't

Speaker 1  32:19
he, yeah, so he's definitely incentivized to be here, and his fiance works here, so they both work here, and they both, they're both super excited. That's why the situation was great, like they're both ready to, you know, she's the main, she's going to be the main customer side person. He's going to be the everything else.

Speaker 6  32:41
So, yep, no, well, then you, yeah, you landed a good because then they both benefit from it, so they're both striving towards the same goal. So absolutely, yeah, that's a sweet, that's a sweet bonus, or plus to it right there,

Speaker 1  32:57
as long as they stay married. Yeah, exactly, yeah. So I know, I'm really happy with that. The only, the only thing is, like, I didn't know going into this that there were 38 vendors in town. You know, that's dealing with that. That's a takes a long time to deal with all those vendors, and once, what I'll end up doing is those will be consolidated to about 10. There's no need to have all those vendors. It's not worth saving two bucks, you know, to go to just this one vendor. It's like, just not worth it, you know, I mean, and this owner goes to Menards every Sunday evening and buys the supplies at Menards, these supplies at Menards, these supplies at Lowe's, these supplies here, because they're a little bit cheaper everywhere. And, and he's like, you know, you can go to Menards with me this weekend, and I'll show you. I was like, That's okay. I'll just take a picture of the kind of stuff that you like to get, and I'll, I'll go, you know, but I'm gonna get that from Amazon. I'm gonna order that. I'm not, you know, my time is more important than saving a little bit of money on some rags, some shop rags. It's just not worth it. I understand that sentiment, though, and that's how he's been able to be so successful, because he has cut those expenses so much over the years. So you have to be careful, you know, you can't just just willy nilly, you know, cut things out. But yeah, there's got to be a limit.

Speaker 6  34:24
You said something about cameras early, you know, like just little bit more detail. What else is part of like your process as you go in and take over in the beginning. Okay?

Speaker 1  34:33
So I'll put ring cameras. I'll put ring cameras on, on all through the business, right? This, this place already has some surveillance and kind of that older DVR system, so I'll be upgrading that. But right now, you can see all the main areas outside. You can see, you know, at night, if anybody's creeping around, you can see the whole customer area with the waiting room and stuff. But then also, I'll use, like. For, it's like $450 for this, this ring set that you can put on the doors. And everybody has a code, and everybody that goes in and out of a particular area, you have a record of it. So you know, you can set up times where, like anytime after six o'clock, if somebody you know has that has a key opens that door, you know exactly who you've got footage of it, everything. So that's one thing. The other thing is, what's the software called Splash Splash Screen. Splash something, I think it's called splash screen. So I have a subscription to that. I'll usually get subscription of 10 different computers, so every laptop, every tablet that's here, we'll get that installed on there, and I can remote into every one of those and take over the computer. So I can at any point in the evenings or during the day or whatever, if I just want to check on anything. You know, they all have cameras on them. I can pop those cameras on like, what's going on? You know, is everybody working, you know, all that stuff. So that way, you know, that's part of my remote process. That's one of the last things I do, because I'm here day to day. I got a lot of stuff to learn. I can, I can do that later, but without that, you don't know what's going on. And yeah, you might have a good operator, but still you gotta, you know, you have to manage those people too. You can't, you can't fully trust anyone, even if they're invested in the business. You still have to watch people, and you're still the owner, and your name is still on the loans, you know, all that stuff matters. So even if they're just, they might even realize they're making a mistake, you know, whatever, but you you have to, you have to monitor, but you don't have to be here to monitor. And I think that's that's the big problem with this owner, is he's so involved, he's so micromanaged every single aspect of this place that he does and he doesn't trust anyone to do it, even though there's people in place right now that can do a better job. And he's been doing for the last 10 years. He's made he's at this point, he's made a lot of mistakes because he doesn't understand technology. He doesn't understand how much money can be saved. You know, he buys stacks of ticket like cases of these carbon copy ticket things. And then he also, you know, we pay $450 a month for the software. That so you don't have to buy those. So he's buying a month's worth of those is 350 bucks. And he makes his employees right all the stuff out on the ticket, and they have to put it in the computer. And then when they when somebody pays, he takes a receipt, he clips it to his thing, puts it in his file cabinet, and then he writes an does another receipt, gives it to the person at the computer, and then they record the payment there. So, like all this stuff, he he because he doesn't trust anyone, and he doesn't trust technology to, you know, all they would have to do, swipe their card into the the point of sale system that's on the computer. Everything's done. It goes to QuickBooks. The accountant takes care of it. You don't have to worry about anything. It's recorded, it's done. But he just doesn't trust it. So a lot of that kind of stuff, there's money to be saved there because of that mistrust. Well, he is a boomer, yeah, yeah, definitely. He has a flip phone. Carbon Copy he does. He definitely has a got a flip phone. They have to special order for him when he breaks

Unknown Speaker  38:30
them. Oh my gosh, that's funny.

Speaker 6  38:36
Yeah, I guess I'm just, I'm really interested in all the little details. I just, I've worked in corporate for a really long time. And so one, I, you know, this smaller scale is is unfamiliar to me. But two, also, when you get in corporate, I mean, their business practices and everything just seems so huge that you kind of remove yourself. You don't, you know, you just kind of become a cog in the wheel. So it's almost like a different line of thinking. So, yeah, mom, you'll notice my questions are a lot of like, what about this and what about that?

Speaker 1  39:09
Yeah, definitely, yeah. I mean, it's important stuff, and, like, until you do it, you don't know those things. You know, yes, but it's nothing is like nothing is so difficult that, you know, you can't figure it out, all this stuff you can just figure out. And you bring your you bring your skill set to it, you know. So we all have things that we're very good at, and that just bringing a whole set of skills to a business will improve it as long as you like. What you don't want to do is you don't want to come in and say, I know better than this owner about every single thing. Now you don't want to do that. Listen to what they say. You don't have to always follow what they say, but at least listen to it and try to understand why they came to that conclusion, why they made those. Decisions and then move, you know, go from there. But people make that mistake, and I see, I get questions a lot like, oh, here they'll send me. Somebody will DM me, and they'll send me financials. And the financials will be terrible, like, terrible. But what they what they have in there is, like, this potential, you know, the broker writes it up in a way that, oh, they're not advertising, they're not doing this. They don't have any competitors. They can do this. They can do that. But, you know, I think it's pretty naive or arrogant to think that you can come in and be so much better than the owner to where you can turn that business around when they've been spending, you know, however many hours every single week and years trying to turn a business, trying to turn a profit, and they can't so much so that they're giving up on it, you know. But people do it all the time, you know, and that's got to be way more difficult than than what I'm doing. I'm not willing to do that. No way

Unknown Speaker  41:03
you're not buying dreams.

Unknown Speaker  41:05
No, no,

Speaker 1  41:10
yeah, okay, let me go ahead. I'll stop this one.
