Speaker 1  00:03
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. We're starting the mentorship portion of the evening. It is Thursday, August 28 and let's go ahead and kick it off with patience. Patience. What do you got?

Unknown Speaker  00:21
Hi, Shane. So recently,

Speaker 2  00:26
with my credit score a little affected, and I heard something on Tiktok, and I just wanted to see how I could use it to my advantage. It's all about this. You know, I see a lot of people here. A lot of people talk about insurance and how the rich tap into it and use it for the advantage. Would that be something you have a knowledge about? Like, to kind of, like, shed a little more light on it, like, I do want to take the bull by the horn, like, change my situation, but I feel like I don't want to do it the old school, like just walking and saving, like you said, I have done that, and it has not really. It has helped, but I just need some support right now, you know, to bother myself and move forward with purchasing something. So I have some kind of life insurance that I didn't pay attention to this while, and I'm looking at the possibility of tapping into there to support myself. So what would you say about it?

Speaker 1  01:42
Well, I think I know what you're talking about. So there are a lot of people are talking about iuls, universal life insurance policies, and sometimes they refer to it as perpetual banking, where you can be your own bank, where you're financing your own deals through your life insurance policy. Every time that I look into that, it the numbers don't work. This was a this was a fad, especially like about six months ago, you had all kinds of people talking about iuls and how they're great, and you can finance all your deals. And you know you can approve yourself for loans, and like all this craziness, fast forward six months later, and you have just as many people talking about how it's a scam and it doesn't work. I fall somewhere in the middle, because I think if you have a lot of resources already, and you've paid a lot of money into a life insurance policy that is set up the right way, then you can take advantage of some of the things that that that they're talking about. But for regular people who just have a standard life insurance policy, no just it does not work. This the way they say that it works. It seems like it does. They make a lot of sense, but in practice, I have not seen this actually work, and that's where they're talking about IUL. I forget what The I stands for, but it's universal life insurance.

Speaker 2  03:20
You said, not for standard life insurance. So what kind of insurance

Speaker 1  03:26
they're talking about? Iuls, which is a certain section, like an offshoot of standard life insurance. So I don't really know what the difference is, but like a lot of life insurance policies. You can't just take a loan out on. It just depends, you know? So when, when times get desperate and you need money, there are things that you can do to get over the hump, right? A lot of people, what's your traditional things that people do? HELOC, that's one of them. If you if you own a home, and you're in financial trouble, and you just need something temporary to get you through, you know, medical bills, or, you know, a health crisis, something like that. That's one that's one way cashing in your 401, K, you know, taking money at their hardship. Reasons Why You can get money out of your 401, K, and you, you're going to still pay taxes on it, but you're not going to pay the penalties that you would for just taking it out because you want to. If you have a hardship, which is, you know, you lost your job, you have health things, big life changes, like divorce, even, even marriage, you know, because it's a life event, you can take money out of your 401, K, you can take money out of IRAs. Those are, like the traditional ways. Another way is just to get a credit card to get you through. But I don't think the life insurance IUL thing is a. A feasible and workable way to get through in the short term, unless you have paid a substantial amount to it already.

Speaker 2  05:18
That makes sense. I got some money, and I could have used my divorce as a way to not pay this.

Unknown Speaker  05:26
I did pay, like, the penalty,

Unknown Speaker  05:29
like, oh, for your 401, K,

Speaker 2  05:31
yeah, I wish I knew you can also, can I go back, ask them to give me my money back. Ask you can

Speaker 1  05:40
also get a loan against your 401 K, and not actually take any money out, but your your 401 k can be the collateral for the loan too. You can do that as well. You can get a loan against a stock portfolio. You can get a loan about against just about anything.

Speaker 2  06:00
If you were to get a loan on that, that would be like you pulling the money out you saw and then loaning that to your business, or

Speaker 1  06:10
no, to get a loan against your 401, K, uh huh. No. I mean, it just stands as collateral for the loan. So all, all banks will give, you know, what's called loan to value. So if they value, say, you have $50,000 in your 401 K, they might give you 20% they might give you $20,000 and then the 401 k stands good for that. If you default on it, then they'll seize the 401 K, okay.

Speaker 2  06:38
And you can channel that into like, if you said, like, you want to purchase a business, like, your down payment and stuff like that. I'm just trying to like, yeah, where you can separate you and the business. And, okay,

Speaker 1  06:52
yeah, you can get a personal loan against your 401, K if you really want to. And, you know, a personal loan, you can do anything with that money. You can go to Vegas if you want to with that money. It's your money. Go to Vegas, but I'm just saying, you know, you can do whatever.

Unknown Speaker  07:09
All right, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  07:14
Okay, indexed, universal life. Thank you, Gina, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:18
that's what the IUL is. I

Speaker 1  07:25
there's actually some people on Tiktok. I've watched a guy that's all he talks about his how they're scam. That's his whole platform. He does lives like multiple times a week, where all he does is answer questions about why iuls are a scam. So if you just go to Tiktok and search for IUL you'll find the guy.

Unknown Speaker  07:50
I can't remember his name. Okay. Thanks.

Speaker 1  08:01
Anybody else have any questions? You guys found any possible businesses?

Unknown Speaker  08:08
Anybody got any nibbles?

Speaker 3  08:12
Hey, Shane, I found two businesses that I'm just caught my attention. Do you mind looking at them?

Speaker 1  08:18
Yeah, absolutely. Can you drop it in the chat. We'll check it out.

Unknown Speaker  08:22
Yep, just dropped one in the chat. Okay, let's see.

Unknown Speaker  08:39
Okay, just put the second one into

Unknown Speaker  08:53
shift happens that's a good broker,

Speaker 1  08:59
making it snappy. Okay, four asking price, 450 cash flow, 130 okay,

Unknown Speaker  09:10
it's a little low.

Speaker 1  09:22
Yeah. A bunch of salesmanship about the growing auto repair industry, which is great and all true, but doesn't really help you with this acquisition. Okay, here we go. Wow. Okay, so we offer a state of the art training and support for your staff. Hmm? Doesn't really say much, does it? So it's been around for 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  09:52
Says they have five employees. Okay?

Speaker 1  09:58
We got here 4500 square feet. Eat. That's not bad. Six inside base space for two more office, reception area, waiting room, clean customer restroom, blue break area, okay, well, that's pretty good. Most repair shops don't have a break area and storage areas and all that stuff.

Unknown Speaker  10:20
Five star reviews, yada yada yada.

Speaker 3  10:26
I also like that the owner, what only looks like he goes in once or twice a week, so he's not super he's not the one like doing the repairs.

Unknown Speaker  10:35
Okay, so retirement, that's good.

Unknown Speaker  10:40
So there's a parent company. So is this a franchise?

Unknown Speaker  10:44
Oh, I didn't catch that. It

Speaker 1  10:47
says the parent company will offer you full support and training Dallas. Yeah, I think the first paragraph said, franchise. Okay, so there's a lot of salesman like sound bites in here from this broker. This is a pretty slick broker, so I don't know,

Unknown Speaker  11:19
what I what I don't like is, you know,

Speaker 1  11:23
this business, by the cash flow, should, they should be asking 390 at most for this business. Okay, that's, that's one thing. But that doesn't mean you couldn't negotiate down to it. If it's fully absentee already, you know, you pay a premium for a fully absentee business you do, but it does. It really say how much the owner is working.

Speaker 3  11:48
I didn't see this, but in that bottom part that he came in one or two times a week, but you're right. I just saw the franchise in that first paragraph, which I did not see. Oh, and says right there under franchise section.

Speaker 1  12:02
Well, this, I mean, doesn't necessarily make it a terrible thing, okay, but, you know, I talk about this a lot on lives, like, if you're going to buy a new franchise location, that's one thing, because you get a head start. You know, if you're going to start a brand new business, you have nothing. You don't have systems, you don't have payroll, you don't have accounting, you don't have employees, you don't have marketing. You have nothing. So the reason why people want a new franchise location is because the franchise will. Franchiser will give you that stuff, they'll give you the systems and the training and the inventory and everything you need to get started, but when you buy something that's already been established and already started, you lose a lot of the advantage that you would get. What you end up with is just buying the burden of paying those franchise fees often. So franchise fees can be anywhere from five to 10% of your gross income. So that means, if you made, you know, $100,000 in a month, you owe them 10 grand, possibly five to 10,000 no matter what profit, if any, that you got. So your expenses might be 101,000 but you still owe them five to 10,000 so just know that that going in it, they're always going to kind of have their hand in your pocket in a franchise.

Speaker 3  13:25
Gotcha, yeah? I mean franchise,

Speaker 1  13:28
yeah, but it might be, it might be worth looking into just to see, especially one to two days a week for the potential of 130,000

Unknown Speaker  13:37
a year. That's hard to beat.

Unknown Speaker  13:40
You know, could you work one to two days a week for 130

Unknown Speaker  13:44
grand a year? Yes, I would see, there

Speaker 1  13:47
you go. There you go. But just remember, though, that, you know, this is a little overpriced if you want it to fit into the system where it will make enough money to pay itself off in three, three and a half years, then this needs to be more around 390 or 400 Okay, I like it though. You know, I love auto repair. Those are good lifts too.

Unknown Speaker  14:11
If that's actually the picture, yeah,

Speaker 3  14:15
I dropped in another one. It's for a landscaping company.

Unknown Speaker  14:22
I didn't see franchise on that one.

Speaker 3  14:30
Oh, I think that one might be the one someone else dropped in. That's fine. We can see that one first.

Unknown Speaker  14:36
No, that's okay. Let's, let's go down see.

Speaker 1  14:42
We There we go. Okay, oh, wow. Cash flow is great,

Unknown Speaker  14:48
established in 1982 holy cow.

Unknown Speaker  14:54
So it definitely meets the 3x Rule.

Speaker 1  14:59
Let's see. Apartment complexes. So it's got a lot of commercial and residential.

Unknown Speaker  15:06
Where's this at? This is San Diego, so

Speaker 1  15:10
pretty much your area, okay,

Unknown Speaker  15:15
well trained team. Okay.

Speaker 1  15:18
Did you see this? Does it require C 27 contracting license.

Speaker 3  15:23
Yeah, I in one of your videos, I think you had mentioned, does the staff have to have it, or does the owner have to have it? Do you know? I don't know anything about this kind

Speaker 1  15:34
of it's different state to state. Oh, okay, you would have to find that out. It's very possible that is, like, maybe the the GM, if the GM has that license, you might be all right, but a lot, oftentimes it's the owner. That doesn't mean you can't go get one. You know, it might just be as simple as paying a fee and taking a test. It depends. The problem, the license, licensing, that's a problematic is the one are the ones that require you to have a year, two years of experience in the job, things like that. Those are the problematic ones. But if it's not one of those, you could get it yourself, or the GM could do it. Okay? So established clients, three trucks and equipment

Unknown Speaker  16:19
experience, full time staff and crew leaders,

Speaker 1  16:24
1300 in inventory. That sounds about right. They have, that's a little low on the FF and e, if they have three trucks, because if you think about three trucks, each one of them would have like, you know, commercial mowers, which are like, 10 grand a piece, that's, that's kind of low, so it's probably older equipment. Okay, retiring. Wow, they're gonna Okay 30 hours a week for two weeks, and they don't have, like, a warehouse or anything where they keep and everything. I don't know. I think the challenge with this one would be making it absentee, but it's still very possible, and it's, I mean, that's really good numbers, this thing would pay for itself in two years.

Unknown Speaker  17:15
Yeah, that's what I noticed. Also,

Speaker 1  17:19
yeah, it really would. But you know this, you'd have to look at the equipment, and you'd have to think, okay, will this equipment last another one to two years while I'm paying off this debt, or do I need the cash flow to actually buy new equipment? Right now, everybody's buying new equipment. Everybody's buying new equipment because of the big, beautiful bill and bonus depreciation and all that. Like I'm buying new equipment on multiple businesses because of that, because you get essentially 100% write off on equipment. So this would be the time to do it if you were going to do it, but, but yeah, you would definitely have to check that out.

Speaker 3  18:02
Okay, so I'll look into that license and then see what the requirements are, and then maybe request financials on

Speaker 1  18:09
this, yeah, request financials, and then request a, you know, a list of all their equipment, because that's like, you want a detailed list of their FF and E. You want to know what kind of equipment give me the you know, what kind of trucks, what kind of mowers, you know, you want to because it's a equipment intensive business that, I mean, it's fully understandable.

Unknown Speaker  18:36
Got it? Okay?

Speaker 1  18:42
Okay, let me see okay. Shane, I don't think if you were talking earlier, we did not hear you, so it might be something going on with your mic. Okay, so we can go over this business, though. So this is in Florida, auto mechanic shop, 35 years in business. Love it. Cash Flow. 140 to asking price, 300 that's great. Established 1989 that's awesome. It says turn key, which means that it's currently operating and everything's good.

Unknown Speaker  19:16
Owners retiring

Speaker 1  19:20
1700 square foot warehouse that's pretty small actually, for an auto repair shop,

Unknown Speaker  19:28
fully equipped,

Unknown Speaker  19:32
loyal customers,

Unknown Speaker  19:37
three employees, that's a little worrisome.

Unknown Speaker  19:46
25 parking spaces. That's good.

Speaker 1  19:52
Okay, so you can get a loan for 50% and the owner will finance the other 50. That's right, and they're 71 Years old. Okay, so, so here you go. You get an idea of what the building is like. So you've got 1234,

Unknown Speaker  20:08
big garage doors.

Speaker 1  20:12
Presumably, they have car lifts in each one of those. I don't know, but you know, four lifts should produce a lot of money, if you advertise, if you, you know, take potentially old systems into the into the present, and use technology. I mean, this might be a good business. I would definitely pursue it further. My My only fear would be three employees. So that means that this owner is probably an owner operator. He's handling the day to day. You would have to have an answer for that, but the cash flow compared to the asking price supports possibly bringing in a manager or promoting from within. So

Unknown Speaker  21:05
um, Jane, I don't know if you're talking, but we can't hear you.

Unknown Speaker  21:14
But you could type it in the chat that might help.

Unknown Speaker  21:19
Yeah, we can't hear you, sorry.

Speaker 1  21:31
But, I mean, I would, I would definitely get more information on this. I would reach out, get financials, see what's where it's at. Can't hurt right? At first glance, it meets the Fab Five for sure, other than the three employees, that's the only thing it's lacking. Okay, Danielle, you got one? Okay, let me see what you got here. Danielle, know,

Unknown Speaker  22:04
I had two of them, but I didn't want to overwhelm the chat.

Unknown Speaker  22:07
No, that's okay.

Speaker 1  22:11
Okay, so this is an electrical contracting business. You have to be careful, careful with electrical contracting, because there's a lot of regulation. So, oftentimes, in a lot of states, you have to be, you know, not necessarily a master electrician, but at least an electrician. Okay, so you might have to check that, but cash flow is great. All that's great. Let's see what we got here. Wiring and rewiring to make sure everything is operating safely. It's turnkey.

Unknown Speaker  22:54
In the background, I got the kids here.

Speaker 1  22:57
No, no, it's cool. I don't know if you guys can hear my dogs barking in the background. Okay, the seller would train for an agreed amount of time for a smooth transition. No, we still can't hear you. Shane, sorry, he's retiring. Okay, they don't give you a lot of information, but this business has been around for 40 years, so, yeah, just a lot

Speaker 4  23:23
more information needed, like, as far as the electrical, like, licensure requirement, or, you know, like, what do I, you know, what is required of the owner?

Speaker 1  23:34
Yeah. I mean, the first thing I would do is I would, so, this is Palm Desert, California, right? I would go to chat, G, P, T, and I would say, what do I need to do to start a electrical contracting business in Palm Desert, California. And it'll tell you, if you have to have certifications, and you know you can, you can go from there. That's a good place

Speaker 4  23:58
to start. Do you know what they mean by con electric? I think I'm getting thrown off by the electrical contracting part. Like, was that just like a regular electrical company?

Speaker 1  24:09
Yeah, they're so if they're, if they're contracting, that means they're probably doing larger jobs. Like, you know, they might do new constructions, they might do commercial, they might do residential, they might do all of it, but they can, pretty much if they're contracting. That means they can do it themselves, and they can subcontract it to other companies like they they can actually bid jobs if they're contractors

Speaker 4  24:39
in a business like this, you we're still a little concerned about the three employees.

Speaker 1  24:45
Yeah, yeah. Because so this, this owner has been around since 1986 and they're probably there every single day.

Speaker 4  24:54
So tell if it's like a storefront or not like or is this like?

Speaker 1  24:59
No, I doubt it. A storefront. They probably just have a truck or two. And I didn't see anything about FF and E doesn't explain that. So that would be a good question like, do they have a warehouse for equipment? Do they have an office? You know, what's up with that? You'll you'll see if they give you financials, you'll be able to discern a lot of that by if they have a mortgage, if they have a lease, you know, expenses, things like that. But, you know, you might end up having to pay somebody 100 grand to manage this thing, or take one of those three employees that's already there and give them an extra 50 grand to do it. It's very doable. There's enough wiggle room, or you could do that, because even if you pay a GM 50, that leaves you 146 it definitely still is a good deal.

Speaker 4  25:57
Okay, thank you. I'll drop the other one in the chat and just get back in line for

Speaker 5  26:03
the review. Okay. Oh, another one. Let's Yeah, no problem. Let's look at this one. Oh, we got here.

Speaker 1  26:13
Potential absentee, 25 year old cabinet and closet manufacturing. Wow. Cash Flow to asking price that's almost a two multiple. That's really good.

Unknown Speaker  26:26
Two employees, hmm, that's pretty scary

Unknown Speaker  26:31
retirement. So

Unknown Speaker  26:38
they're willing to owner finance 50 grand of it.

Unknown Speaker  26:42
So you'd have to bring 345, in

Unknown Speaker  26:48
high end repeat clientele and management.

Speaker 1  26:55
Well, I mean, cabinet making is a very niche industry that requires a lot of skill. So this has been around for 25 years. There's two employees. So how much of that skill was the owner, and how much of that skill is these two employees, you would have to find that out. That would be your your biggest difficulty there you get 40 grand and FF and E, which is going to be, you know, tools, saws, all that kind of junk. You get a warehouse. They manufacture their own stuff.

Unknown Speaker  27:38
Okay? I Hmm, you get four weeks of training.

Speaker 1  27:47
I don't know. I This one makes me think that they would expect someone to come in and work there every day. I'd be willing to wager that's what they expect. And if you're wanting to not be there, they would probably not sell to you. And I say that just on a assumption, because it's cabinet making, that's they're kind of a close knit group

Unknown Speaker  28:16
and two employees. Yeah,

Speaker 1  28:19
yeah, I know. I wouldn't personally pursue this one, because two employees especially, and the industry that it's in is very,

Unknown Speaker  28:31
very close knit. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  28:34
Okay, Danielle, let's see what we got here. We got another 1h.

Unknown Speaker  28:38
Back, love it. I

Speaker 4  28:43
I find it interesting. This is in Palm Desert, again, like this one is too, and the same established year. So I'm like, is this the same owner?

Speaker 1  28:52
It could be, it could be, yeah. So a lot of times, people will start electrical companies, they'll start plumbing companies, and they'll start HVAC, and then they'll combine those, and they'll call it, you know, whatever, mechanicals, and it'll have all three. So because mechanicals in your home, or any, you know, it's all those big things, you see that a lot.

Unknown Speaker  29:15
For 40 years, five star reviews

Speaker 4  29:19
didn't provide a lot, like, I don't know, the number of employees

Speaker 1  29:23
pre qualified, which doesn't mean a whole lot, just means that the, you know, numbers are decent.

Unknown Speaker  29:31
So you would have inventory that you'd

Unknown Speaker  29:37
have to buy to not include it.

Speaker 1  29:39
Yeah, they also, they don't have a facility at all, which you wouldn't necessarily need it. You just need trucks and stuff,

Speaker 4  29:48
yeah, but so like knowing how many, how many employees, and then it said at the top that they they would owner finance. But. They didn't mention, like, if it would be a portion of it or the whole thing.

Unknown Speaker  30:09
Hmm, yeah, right here.

Speaker 1  30:14
Yeah, this would be one that you you'd have to reach out. But again, you know, because it's California, you have to find out about the restrictions for HVAC. Does the owner, you know, have to have an HVAC license More times than not? California is the worst state as far as that goes. Like they want the the owners to have contracting licenses. They want the owners to have HVAC electrical. So you would have to find that out for sure. That's that would be. My next step is find out that first and and then reach out for Financials.

Speaker 5  30:52
I mean, we can, okay, we can do a little bit of it right here. Let's see.

Speaker 4  30:58
Because, you know, California would be the, the most difficult state for everything? Yep, I've Like, I literally think it's like, the most challenging state for everything. All. Everything is strict, everything. It's like, so oppressive. Well, it can be, you know, it can be, it depends on how you look at it, but Whoo, boy, did they make you work?

Speaker 1  31:22
Yeah, so you need an HVAC contractor license, C 20 in California,

Unknown Speaker  31:29
just to operate or supervise.

Speaker 4  31:34
Wait, wait, hold on, Jack. You said to to to supervise.

Unknown Speaker  31:39
It says to operate or supervise.

Speaker 4  31:43
So as a owner, we're considered an operator. Let's see. You know what I mean, because I don't plan on operating no machines or helping nobody with no HVAC. You know personally, you know that's not my intention. I

Speaker 1  32:13
There you go. You can own the business without personally holding the license, as long as someone holds the C 20 license and they're designated as the responsible managing officer, boom, okay.

Speaker 4  32:29
GPT, I think it's probably the same for that landscaping thing too,

Speaker 1  32:34
probably, probably, but you're going to want, you know, you always want to double check chat. GBT, you know, ask it for

Unknown Speaker  32:44
what are your sources for this information?

Speaker 3  32:49
I did Google it as well, and Google came up with the same answer. Okay, yeah, not sure if that's also chatgpt Now, yeah.

Speaker 1  32:57
I mean, it's probably AI, but, I mean, there you go it, but it'll tell you what, what the sources are, where it got the information. You can go verify that it is, in fact, true. But that's, you know, that's good to know, right there. So it's, it sounds like you could buy this business as long as you have a good GM in place that has the license. And you know, that would be the next question is, you know of these, whatever employees, which ones have this specific license. So now that you know what that license is, you can go back up here and say, you know which ones have the HVAC contractor license, C, 20. How many?

Unknown Speaker  33:37
That'll give you an idea too.

Unknown Speaker  33:41
Yeah, I like it. I do you

Speaker 4  33:45
like this one better than the electrical or just depends, or,

Speaker 1  33:49
well, it depends that you don't have enough information on this one. You don't know the employees. You don't know a lot of stuff on this yet. I mean, you could have seven or eight employees on this one, and it looks great. Or you could have two, right? But, you know, they're both retiring, it could very well be the same owner.

Speaker 4  34:10
But I was looking at the broker. Isn't the broker right there listed by so when I looked at everyone, it was a different, a different guy, okay? So I was like, it would make sense, if it was the same person, that they would have the same broker, I mean, or maybe they just want to, I don't know, I'm definitely going to ask if they have other listings.

Speaker 1  34:33
Well, I mean, both of these businesses are, you know, recession resistant, like you have to have them. People will use them no matter what.

Unknown Speaker  34:46
They're both growing,

Speaker 1  34:49
you know, service industry, I mean, they're great. Both of them are good. So the numbers on this one are a little better than the other one.

Unknown Speaker  34:58
Yeah, they. Are,

Speaker 1  35:00
yeah, but I, you know, I would definitely reach out and just see what happens.

Speaker 4  35:06
Is seller financing always like the better option, or is there like things that might make that not so desirable?

Speaker 1  35:17
Well, it depends. So, you know, sometimes they have ridiculous terms they want, you know, a year or two years, and they've got 5% you know, that's not feasible. It just depends on, you know, just like a bank, a bank at all, you know, it could be 10% or it could be 5% I mean, it's more about the terms than it is the number. You know, if I told you, you know, tomorrow I'm going to, I'm going to give you a billion dollars, you know, you'd be like, Oh, great. But that billion dollars is going to be 10 cents over, over the course of how, you know, 1000 years. Then it's not going to mean crap, it's that kind of thing. Got it, but just the fact that they're offering it and saying it's available, that's a good sign.

Unknown Speaker  36:19
I always just get suspicious when,

Speaker 4  36:22
like, when companies that have been around for a long time go for sale. I'm like, So you mean to tell me the employees like they didn't want to buy your business? I think we've talked about this before, but

Speaker 1  36:33
yeah, well, and here's the thing with most people are not responsible enough to buy a business. They might be great employees. I have dozens of great employees, but, you know, they live paycheck to paycheck, and they're completely happy with that. You know, they'll get their paycheck on Friday, and then next, the following Wednesday, they'll ask for an advance on the paycheck because they've already spent their money. But they're at work every day, you know they're paying their bills, but they're just not responsible. They might be the best employee, the best GM in the world, but if they can't get their, you know, personal habits and personal finances together, they can never buy a business, and some people are completely fine with that. As long as they get their they know their paycheck is steady and they can live week to week, that's all they need.

Unknown Speaker  37:27
But it's, it's very common.

Speaker 1  37:32
I think, I think we lose track of the fact that we are different. We're weird me, you know, I always remember, like, try to remember, like, Hey, I work more than most people do. I don't sleep as much as a lot of people do. And it's by choice, you know, most of it. But like, some people would not feel comfortable owning a business whatsoever. They don't want to be responsible for other people. They don't want to be responsible for a lot of bills, and the idea of making a lot more money appeals to them, but the fear of all the added responsibility terrifies them, so they'd rather just not do it at all.

Unknown Speaker  38:16
That's another factor too.

Speaker 4  38:20
That's very true. I hadn't thought about it like that, like just capacity people. Some people just don't have the capacity and the mindset for becoming a business owner and all that it entails. It is, it is freaky, you know, and it would overwhelm people. I mean, it overwhelms, like, I'm sure most of us. So, yeah, I can only imagine,

Speaker 1  38:44
yeah, yeah. I mean, so, so my wife's sister, you know, she always asked, like, Hey, how are things going with the businesses and blah, blah, blah. And, you know, we'll have good stories and bad stories. That's just business, right? Something works, something failed, that's just kind of how things go. Everything can't be roses all the time. And she's like, I don't know how you guys do it. I'd much rather just, you know, be be broke and not have any anything to worry about. That was her words. And I get that, you know, it's, it's, it's a choice. You Uh, but yeah. I mean, it could. It could very well be that they're not responsible enough with their money, or they just don't want to be a business owner. But again, those are things that you figure out when you get a chance to actually talk to those employees, because at some point in the process, you will get to talk to them, and you will learn just as much about the business from those employees as you will, from the financials and the owner. But I love the fact that every single business that you guys put in the chat tonight. Good you know, usually there'll be, like, one stinker, but I mean, you guys are looking and finding good stuff. I love that. That's awesome. Because I think we're about ready for another success story video. I'm ready to film one for sure. What do you guys think?

Unknown Speaker  40:30
Heck, yeah, that's right. Okay.

Speaker 2  40:38
There is one in Illinois. No, I don't know if I can put the link in the chart. It's, it's a long it's a long business, but I feel like the asking prices is rather high compared to

Unknown Speaker  40:53
the the cash flow. Okay, it's in Illinois,

Unknown Speaker  40:57
yeah. Let me try to,

Unknown Speaker  40:59
let me see if I can drop it in.

Unknown Speaker  41:13
What kind of business

Speaker 2  41:17
is it? Loan? Loan, snow blower and everything. Okay, I just found it now, like this one's.

Speaker 5  41:34
Is it one of these? These four? Oh,

Unknown Speaker  41:46
no, I don't

Unknown Speaker  41:54
know my bad. I already

Unknown Speaker  41:57
clicked on me. No, it's none of those.

Unknown Speaker  42:02
They have a website and

Unknown Speaker  42:03
everything so commercial.

Speaker 2  42:07
Snow removal, the person is selling for health reasons, but he's

Unknown Speaker  42:23
I don't know

Speaker 1  42:30
if you can drop it in the chat. I'll check it out.

Unknown Speaker  42:35
I'll try to see if I can pull it Back off. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  43:16
There's a bunch of them. I

Speaker 2  43:32
I don't know what I can do with it. It just disappeared on me. Someone was trying to

Speaker 1  43:37
access okay, if you find it throughout the week, you can you can DM it to me and I'll check it out. That goes for everybody. Like, if you find something, I might ask you to bring it up in the mentorship. But, like, I'll look at it for you throughout the week when I you know it might not be immediate, but I definitely will. I do it all the time. I

Speaker 5  44:04
All right, we'll do one more. Janisha, let me see what you got here.

Unknown Speaker  44:16
Money exchange, business, okay,

Speaker 1  44:21
no, look at look at this. Look at the difference here.

Unknown Speaker  44:26
They're asking 1.7 right

Unknown Speaker  44:31
way off.

Speaker 1  44:36
It's absentee. It's been around for 16 years. That's all great. Sees 11 to 16 million in volume. That's a lot for employees.

Unknown Speaker  44:49
Absentee money exchange,

Speaker 1  44:55
hmm, it's not a business that I know. A lot about but I know that it's very expensive,

Unknown Speaker  45:14
and you would have to bring 170,000

Unknown Speaker  45:17
in cash to buy this business.

Speaker 1  45:21
That's quite a bit. There is seller financing possible, but it's probably only going to be for a portion, maybe a few 100,000 but yeah, I mean, this business should be like 1.2 at most. Do you like the idea of just trading one money for another money and then trading back for another money? That seems like a good business,

Unknown Speaker  46:01
but yeah, I'd say it's overpriced.

Unknown Speaker  46:13
Okay, this was good stuff.

Speaker 1  46:16
Guys, good businesses. You guys are looking, I love that you're finding good stuff. You're finding good home service, industries, landscaping, electrical, HVAC, all the good stuff that we like, all the stuff that's recession resistant, that no matter what people are going to use. So keep up the good work. Reach out to those you know brokers and in just never know. You know it might be the first step to that first business, and they might say absolutely not. You know, we're not going to deal with you, and that's fine too. You just move on to the next one. But just keep going. You're on the right

Unknown Speaker  47:03
Path.
