Speaker 1  00:00
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, December 11, 2025 I thought tonight that I would kind of break it down to the basics. We've got some newer people in the community. And I get, I get asked a lot of the same questions over and over in the lives, you know, where do you find the businesses? How do you know it's a good business? What's a good first business to buy? Like, all those things keep coming up. And, you know, I tend to kind of give blanket answers to that, you know, well, it's relative to what you're into and, you know, what you're interested in, and how much time you can invest all that kind of stuff. But I thought I would just, I would actually put it out, like, pros and cons and like, what it's really like. I try to, I try to go back to the first acquisition that I made, which is a property management company. I didn't really know anything about business, very little about running a business. I had an idea, you know, you know, some basic accounting, you know, like, Oh, it can't be that hard. Money comes in and money goes out, and you keep track of it, blah, blah, blah, and you get in there and you figure out that, hey, there's a lot more going on. And what, what I use that first acquisition for, was as much of a learning experience as it was profitable monetarily, you know. So I want to frame it in those terms tonight.

Unknown Speaker  01:24
So let's get into it.

Speaker 1  01:30
Okay, okay, so this is going to be what to look for in that very first business, you know, if, if people here have already, have already, you know, been in business for a while, that that's cool, but this is kind of like, okay, you want to use it to learn and to profit at the same time, because this is going to be a springboard for entrepreneurship to continue to scale up multiple businesses and keep going. So what makes that good first acquisition? What we're going to talk about is how to choose a good first business and what are the acquisition fundamentals for that first business. Because the the amount of learning required for to go from zero businesses to one is huge. There's a lot of learning involved in there, where you're learning the process you're like, you're learning how the business runs. And then when you go from business one to two, it's a little less business two to three. You got the hang of it. You're in the swing of it, right? So as long as you stay in the same types of industries, you can use the same systems, you can use the same processes. You can, you know, lather, rinse, repeat over and over once you find something that works for you. So the main theme tonight is going to be your first deal is about minimum regret and not maximum upside. I've said it many, many times, hit a base, hit first. Don't, don't try to hit a home run. You know that very first business should not be a $4 million 100 employee, huge tons of moving pieces, and, you know, complex business model, 12 different revenue streams like that's just not feasible. If you've not been in there like I would, I would be intimidated to jump into a business like that, because it's completely out of my wheelhouse. That's not what I'm doing. So I just think that that's almost hubris to think that any of us could go from not knowing, not ever running a business, to jumping into a role like that. The first business should pay you while you learn how to run it. Okay, there should be enough profit in it to where it's it's going to sustain you, it's going to, you know, it's going to make it worth your while. But at the same time, it shouldn't be so risky and and so stressful that it can bury you, okay, but it should definitely pay you while you learn. So you're buying cash flow and not ideas. Okay, so that's why we go through the financials. We're looking at the tax returns, we're looking at the P and L's. We have everything, everything laid out before us. And we're not buying a business that is losing money. We're buying a business that has consistently made money year after year, quarter after quarter, and is still making money in the latest financials that you currently have. You're not buying a deal with a bunch of blue sky in it, and blue sky being the potential that that business has, it might be a wonderful idea. And, you know, maybe they've been losing money. But then they say, but there's so much potential. If we just did more advertising, you're going to see that in a lot of listings. They'll say, you know, potential of the business is, well, we're hardly advertising at all. If you just put a little money into advertising, I'm sure the revenue will grow. Well, maybe, yeah, maybe. But maybe it won't make any difference at all, because there's been. Bigger problems going on in the business than just lack of advertising and complexity equals risk. If a business is very hard to understand how it's going to make money, then that's more risk. You need something that you can jump into and understand within 90 days everything you need to be able to take that business in the direction you wanted to go. So if you jump into a business, you go to look at a business, or look at the financials, you're like, I don't understand how they even make money. It could be like a SaaS company software as a service. And you're like, Okay, well, they're giving it away for free. And then this happens, and then if an advertiser does this, then maybe we make money, like all these different things that have to happen to make money. And you'll see that a lot with SAS companies. You see it with gaming companies, where it's a they have a a free platform that they give everybody, and then they want you to that gamer to buy skins, or to buy tokens or to buy whatever, and all these things have to happen for you to make money. That stuff's complex. Probably not a good idea for the first one, and then assume that maybe something bad happens. You're going to have to operate it. What happens if you, if you get in that business, you've got an employment contract with the you know that GM, that's that's supposed to help you run it. And still, still, they take off because an employment contract is great, but you know, you it's not enforceable over the entire United States. So if you have an employment contract with a non compete for that county or that state, and they're like, Okay, screw you. I'm going anyway, and I'm going to Utah, and I'm going to work, you know, for the circus, like I'm doing something completely different. There's nothing you can do. So think about, if you're left holding the bag, what that means, okay, if it's a very complex business that requires huge amounts of expertise, and that's probably not a good first buy, and then think about what it's going to take to replace yourself later. Because a lot of people want to buy a business, they want to jump in, they want to operate, and then they want to transition out later. You know you can do that as well. So what would it take to replace you with a manager later? If that's what you want to do? So all these things that you you know, because we're not thinking about a to b, we're thinking about a to z, all those steps down the road, and we always have an end game when we get into every investment, whether it's the stock, bonds, crypto, business, real estate, doesn't matter. And so like, what, like I said earlier, you're buying cash flow. It has to work today. You're not. You're not buying it for the potential that it works tomorrow. You want customers that are loyal, that already pay that there's not when you see a huge amount of of delinquent accounts receivable, when you look at the the books, there's something that's making people not pay. It's either their their business model is a poor one, when they're not taking up front down, you know, deposits for large jobs, or something, something is wrong. So be wary of of a large accounts receivable that they will include on their books in a way to look like it's making more money, but if no one's actually paying that down, that's not real money, that's not going in your pocket. And you're looking for businesses where some systems already exist. Hopefully a point of sale system is already in place, maybe, but otherwise it should have a pretty easy float, like customer flow or workflow, you know, for instance, like lawn care, you know, somebody calls in. They say, Hey, can I get my, you know, lawn put on your schedule? And you say, yeah, and they put a cart credit card on file. You charge the credit card every week, as the service happens, and then it's, you know, it's a pretty easy system to wrap your head around, but it should already be in place and avoid turnarounds or flips. You know, if you see a business that's failing, but it's because the old owner was messing it up, or was making this mistake or doing this or that you don't want that. You want something that's going to pay you while you learn. And like I said, complexity is risk. If it's too many revenue streams, if it's extremely specialized labor, like cabinet makers, I would not ever want a cabinet making business, because it seems like, okay, they're just, you know, they're putting on doors, on cabinets, and doing this, and that no cabinet makers are extremely specialized, highly skilled people in that's just, just one example. You know, when you get into those real niche industries, it's very hard to find somebody that's skilled to fill those positions, and usually the owner is the person that has all that skill, and they're training everybody, and they're passing that down and bringing employees up. So I stay away from those heavy regulation. Is another one which alcohol, tobacco, you have to be careful about that. Cannabis, you know, everybody. Thinks, Okay, I'm going to get a cannabis company. But, you know, you still can't, to my knowledge, I don't even think you can put those funds in a federal bank, in an FDIC insured bank, like that kind of stuff. Like, why there are so many businesses available? Why jump into something that has all these different rules and things that you have to follow? Leave that to somebody that's in that industry already that understands the rules that's been in it since the beginning, because otherwise the barrier to entry is huge and the learning curve is massive, and they're just going to they're going to run right past you, because it's too much to learn. Simple businesses also are easier to audit and go through due diligence, if you've got 10 different revenue streams, like it's a hotel, but they also do parties, and they, you know, rent day passes at the pool, and they do this, and they do that, you know, I mean, it just gets very complex and hard to figure out where the main money's coming from. Sometimes you might have to buy a job. I always say, you know, buy a business, not a job. I say it constantly. But when I was analyzing this today, I was going back over it, and I thought, the very first business I bought, I did, I bought a job because I bought a business from a guy who was he was a one man show. He didn't have any point of sale system. He didn't have anybody helping him. All the tenants in the property management company would call him, and anytime they had some kind of repair they needed, they would bring the money in money orders and put it in a lock box at his office. It was like that. That was it. So it was a job. I was basically working my regular job, and that job for a couple of months, figuring it out as I started bringing help on, I started putting technology in place, but I did. I i had to temporarily buy a job in order to learn, you know what it takes to actually run a business. So it's gonna, and that's the way it's gonna be is, you know, if it doesn't have a GM, it has a small number of employees, or if you're simply, are looking to transition from your current job into being a business owner, you know, if you hate your current job, you don't, you know, you're like, Screw this Instacart crap. I'm over it. I want to be a business owner. That's fine, right? If you, if you want that lifestyle and you want, you know, extra income or whatever, there's nothing wrong with that. I know. I talk about absentee owner, you know, and scaling and all that stuff. But business owner, you know, business entrepreneurship is a great life, if, if, if that's what you're looking for, but it just depends on your goals, and you might have to be an operator first and an owner later, which means you might have to jump in, figure it out, get things going, and then start pulling back and replacing yourself and delegating and cataloging these systems. You know, I always talk about the playbook. When you buy a business, the first you know, first thing you do is your obligation to the employees, make sure that they understand that they're not going to get fired, that you're going to hold you're going to keep them on the payroll. They make the same amount of money, the same benefits, the same everything. Make sure that the business is stable, and then start documenting everything in the playbook, all your standard operating procedures, your hiring process, the customer flow, everything there is. Because not only will that help you and your employees, but if you ever want to sell it, you know buyers are looking for that as well. That's part of due diligence. It really helps if you have all those SOPs written out and you want to, you have to learn how it works before you can ever grow it, because you're going to pull the wrong levers if you don't understand how it really works. So what's the first ideal acquisition? Boring business, right? That's easy to say that just a boring business, boring, simple business that nobody thinks about. But it also should be local, ideally service based and not product based, and then cash flow positive. So I say service based and not product based, because, you know, product based usually means retail or E commerce, it's advertising intensive, a lot of those things that are difficult to deal with. So a service based business is better, because if, if it's a vital service, it's never going to go out of style. You know, you could sell widgets. And this year, the widgets are the most popular thing in the world. They're the, you know, Panther slippers on Tiktok. But next year, everybody wants leopard slippers, and it's not the same. So why does boring win? For one thing, venture capitalists, it's not it's not generally sexy. So you know, you don't have to compete with them as much the you know you have customers that use the same. Same services over and over for those boring businesses, like, you know, if you think about it right now, if, if you've ever had a plumbing problem and you had a plumber come and they did a decent job at your house, you probably have their card somewhere, or you have it in your in your phone, or something like, if, if anything happens again, you're going to call that same plumber, that kind of stuff, and they're generally undervalued when they're boring sexy businesses like tech startups, highly profitable and popular clubs, things like that, they want more money for them. And right now, I would even lump laundromats into that category, because they're just not boring anymore, because everybody wants them. Storage units are kind of transitioning in that direction too, because everybody also wants them. So it's, it's a seller's market, because there's so much competition for those businesses. So be careful about those. Generally, those are great businesses. They They check all the boxes, but right now they're just kind of the hot items. So be careful about that, because also, car washes are trending that way too. The last few car washes I've looked at crazy expensive. It's just, I don't know what's going on but, but everybody wants those businesses right now. So what's so, what are some examples auto repair? You guys know, I love auto repair. It meets all checks, all those boxes. There's a lot of mom and pops out there. It's simple. You don't have to be licensed. The business model makes sense. It's not a ton of, you know, different revenue streams. It's pretty straightforward, lawn care, same way, HVAC, plumbing. I've been saying it for a while. You know, kids coming out of trade schools right now as plumbers are the millionaires of tomorrow. It's going to happen. There's a shortage of plumbers, and it's not something that people want to get into, but they're going to make a ton of money. And then vending machines. Nobody's really talking about vending machines right now, like they are car washes and laundromats. I think that is, is kind of a sleeper at the moment, because it's not a hot topic. If you can find vending machines that checks all those boxes too, because, very simple, you don't have to worry about payroll. You don't have to worry about, you know, really complex tax situations. It's just a matter of getting the machines and getting them in the right locations, and then figuring out how you're going to restock them and, you know, pull the cash and stuff. So those industry requirements for the boring businesses. There's three topics here. There's fragmentation, skill transferability and local Moats. So what are those? Fragmentation means that it's a lot of small operators. It's if, if you think about what is the the opposite of fragmentation would be like a pharmacy. When you think of pharmacies. You've got Walgreens, CBS, Walmart, you don't see a lot of those small pharmacies like you used to in the past, because they've been gobbled up by conglomerates. Okay, so when you think about the industries that there are a lot of small operators, your plumbers, your HVACs, electricians, auto repair tire shops sometimes, but they're starting to get, you know, gobbled up and franchises and all that stuff. But that's, that's, that's why fragmentation is important, though, because you're not competing against huge corporations like you are with restaurants. You know, I don't specifically mention restaurants in here, because I don't want to hurt George's feelings, because George loves restaurants, but I I'm not big on restaurants. You guys know that. So, yeah, so with with fragmented businesses, low institutional competition, and then you have a potential to do the roll up strategy. We talked about a few videos ago, where you can buy one, then another one, then another one, get to four or five. And your multiple, because you reach a certain level of revenue, your multiple goes up, and it's automatically, just because you've acquired enough for them to bundle them together, they become worth more, okay, that's the roll up strategy, skill transferability. That was number two on that list. That means that whatever skills are required to run that business, you should be able to learn in 90 days. And I'm not saying that if you buy a, you know, a muffler shop, that you have to be out there bend and pipes and and, you know, welding, exhaust and all that stuff. I'm just saying the skills required to run that business and to manage it. We're talking about management over mastery of the skill itself. Because you can buy skilled labor, you can pace, you know, skilled people to come in, but you need to be able to master. How to manage and how to keep that business running within 90 days. If it's too complex for that, it's not a good first time. And then replaceable labor, like the cabinet shop, cabinet maker I was talking about earlier. Where are you going to find somebody if your main cabinet maker leaves, you're not you're in trouble. But if you have, you know, a lawn care service, and, you know, you lose the weed eater number four, you know, you can pretty much replace that person with with comparable labor. You might have to pay them a little more, but it's, it's not the end of the world kind of thing. And then the third thing was local Moats. What I mean by a moat, a moat is, is strategic defense. That is, so it's an asset that keeps the business viable. So it's, it's surrounding that business with something that protects it. So that could be the reputation. You know, it's got great, great Google reviews. It's been around for 30 years. You know, old, the old owners. Everybody in the community knows them and likes them, and it's a staple. It's it, you know, it's got a sign and a jingle on the radio that everybody instantly knows who it is. Those things are huge. Years in business, it's been there for 40 years, customer inertia, which means that people that that go to that business tend to can come back and come back and come back. They don't go anywhere else, because they've always gone to that business. Their parents went to that business, that kind of stuff. And then proximity to the customers. And to you, I'm, you know, I'm big on not having to go out of state to visit your business, not jump on a plane to visit your business. That that becomes huge, especially in your first acquisition. You don't want that thing to be far away, where you're driving three, 400 miles a day, or jumping on a plane all the time to get there, or you have to get an apartment or a hotel room or Airbnb or something, just to deal with that business. And then the license rule. You know, we talked about this extensively last week as far as licensing goes. But you want a business that where the business can hold a license, the manager can be licensed. Those are fine, but you want to avoid where you have to be licensed, you have to get some kind of special training that's very difficult to attain, very difficult to earn that license. Ideally, you would want the business licensed or a manager or multiple employees. For instance, with auto repair, you know you can have certified master technicians, and you can also have people that are state inspectors and that do the the AC stuff. You know, they're certified in that, like those things. Most mechanics have those licenses, and you can just plug and play those as needed, but you don't necessarily, necessarily need those. And then the quality of the revenue is very important. What I mean by that is, where does the you know, the numbers are, one thing, and it might seem like, Okay, this business is making $10,000 a month. Pretty solid, okay, but where does that revenue come from? What's the quality of that revenue? Is it predictable? Is does it wildly range up and down? Does it go from 1000 to 20,000 and it just averages to 10? You know, that kind of stuff matters. That's That's what I mean by the stable and recurring and diversified. So if it's stable, that means you can pretty much set your watch by month to month. If it's recurring. Same thing diversified means that it's coming from multiple customers. You don't want a business that has one or two huge clients and hardly anything else, because you lose one of the big fellas and you're in trouble. There are some businesses out there that and the owner has a relationship with someone that owns a big, some big company, and they've always done business together, and that's their main client. And when the old owner leaves, you might lose that customer, and the business is going to fold. So that's very important. So what's the the low quality is what we just talked about. Oh, maybe only one customer. Maybe it's seasonal, depending on where you're at, you know, if it's a lawn care service, I mean, nobody's cutting grass where I'm at right now. So you have to account for that. It makes the revenue, not as as great as you know, year round is the owner driving the sales themself? Are they the reason that people are coming there? They want to see you know somebody that's charismatic and has been on commercials, and everybody knows them in that community, and then when they come and that person is no longer there, are they going to feel let down and not come back? I. And then is it project based? I had somebody reach out to me on Tiktok. They have a an asphalt business there. So it's a husband and wife team. They own this as asphalt company. The husband is like a hardcore expert in asphalt, like doing the extremely difficult jobs that nobody else wants to do, but they don't really have any systems in place. They're reliant on one project to the next. And she told me, she said, that where it's very scary is they'll go from having $50,000 in the business account in cash to $50 because they'll get one huge project, and then they'll have nothing for a long time, and then one huge project, and then nothing for a long time. They don't have anything that recurs. They don't have it's just so up and down that they're all over the place. And sometimes they'll get one huge job that'll sustain them for a whole year, but sometimes they're almost starving, and that's scary. That's not the kind of business that I want or the life I want. You know, I don't, I don't want to subject my family to that kind of up and down. So the, yeah, the owner, dependency, risk, if the owner leaves, does everything fall apart? What? So that means, is he the only he or she, the only person that knows how things run, is he or she the only person that understands payroll, that understands the books, that understands, you know, how to deal with customers, how to do this, how to do that, if you know there's no standard operating procedures, and are the customers only loyal to that person? So if that's the case, no run away. So here's your mental model for and we'll break this down a little bit more. I know it's a lot of information. I don't want to keep yacking on too much, but your first business should be easy to run, easy to understand, and boring enough that nobody wants to come and steal it from you. So that means, and what I mean by steal it is like a, you know, competition moves in right next door, and then you're competing like a restaurant, you know, and McDonald's gets comes in next door, or fazoles, and you've got a mom and pop Italian restaurant, that kind of stuff. So the absolute nose on a first time business would be anything is pre revenue, which means something that's an idea and a concept that hasn't actually made money. You know, no one's actually written a check to this company. They just, you know, the owner thinks it's going to be a good idea, one with heavy capex, which is capital expenditures, which could be like this business will only work if you buy a brand new bulldozer or, or, you know, some kind of crazy expensive equipment, machinery, technology, and you're going to be the one expected to bring that into the business. You don't want any part of that litigation risk, which would be like, like a parachute company, or, you know somebody that you know, dynamite, firearms, anything that's like, like, Safari related, whatever, whatever you can think of that's very dangerous, that people could potentially get hurt easily. Why subject yourself to that one that has only a single customer, and in any retail? Retail is one of the worst businesses right now. Amazon is killing everybody. People don't shop the way they used to. I mean, look at Black Friday. Black Friday was this huge event years ago where everybody would get up at five in the morning and rush to Walmart to get the stupid Xbox, as you know, for $15 or whatever it's going to be. No one does that anymore. You can get up whenever you want and go on Black Friday, and it's just like any other shopping day, because you've got Cyber Monday and all this kind of stuff. You just can't compete with Amazon these days. Tech startups. Tech startups. You know, one out of 100 is going to make it. They the multiple is crazy high. They're complex. They're being disrupted by AI, like just so many huge things and huge problems with tech startups. And yeah, we see all the big, huge, you know, billionaires and the companies that they started, but we don't see all the 1000s that failed. It's almost like hitting the lottery and then seasonal tourism, motorcycles, boat rentals, that kind of stuff. You don't want that.

Unknown Speaker  29:32
So break it down to just the super seven here.

Speaker 1  29:36
You want stable cash flow, simple operations, a replaceable owner, where you can just plug and play yourself into that role, and it's not going to be a big loss. Hopefully it'll be a gain, because you'll bring your own skill set plus learn what they were doing, diverse customer base, multiple customers, you know, hopefully 1000s of customers in the right business. So. Um, where you the license is independent. Where you the business can be licensed, or the manager, or multiple people. It's not some kind of thing that you have to be licensed. It's easy to get, you know, employees. You're not finding that one specialty employee that you know, that's one out of 1000 people can do this skill, and then you don't want something that's going to cost a ton of money just to keep it going. We want something that's low capital that's already running it and sustaining itself. And yeah, so I just wanted to get this, the specifics of it out there. And again, it's still it's relative to what you're into. It could check all these boxes. And if it's a business that you're not into and you can't see yourself running, then that's not the right one. You know. You have to run it by your filter as well this one and your own. So it makes it more difficult to find that first one, but the worst thing you could do is jump into a business that's too much for you, that is too risky, that you're going to hate because then you'll be one and done in business ownership. And I don't want to see that happen to anybody. It's about learning. It's about building a better life. So you always got to keep yourself safe, okay. Does anybody have any questions about that stuff, all those words that I spit out there, I

Unknown Speaker  31:45
first one who talks loses. I mean,

Speaker 1  31:51
it's pretty straightforward. And I know if you guys have been in my lives and been to these classes, it's not it's not new. We've talked about it before.

Speaker 2  32:03
Do you think that a lot of like the skilled trades, like auto repair or HVAC, are kind of no goes in a way then for the first one, because, like you mentioned with the employment contract, what if they were to take off?

Speaker 1  32:18
Well, the Yeah, I mean, it's, it's a potential risk, for sure, but you're going to have that risk with every business that you're relying on employees to help you, you know, but I don't know. I don't think auto repair fits that bill, because at the end of the day, every mechanic in there can fix a car, right? You can, you can find another GM to replace that GM. You can promote the second most senior service tech into that role. Like I don't, I don't think so. I think what I what I'm talking about, is the one that's like somebody that work. Maybe it's a transmission shop, and there are only a handful of people that actually rebuild transmissions these days, so something like that that's super skilled. It's like, on top of regular auto repair, you're just not going to find somebody that can do that these days. That's what I mean, so specialized that it's impossible to replace.

Unknown Speaker  33:26
I got you Okay, thank you. When

Speaker 3  33:32
you say that plumbers are going to be the next millionaires, does that mean the owner of the plumbing company will not be a millionaire?

Speaker 1  33:41
No, I you know if you, if you get, I think right now, if you can find a plumbing company that you can buy that's affordable, that has that meets all the criteria, should jump on that. But as the years go by, it's going to be less and less and less they're being bought up by private equity, because they can see the trends. And then more and more owner you're going to have owner operated plumbing companies that I mean most, most of the mom and pop ones right now are owner operated, but they're just people aren't going to trade schools, and the numbers that they used to nobody wants to do it anymore. So when you see the numbers of people coming out, you know, with with plumbing certifications and stuff, it's way down, way down.

Speaker 3  34:30
Wow, yeah. So does that mean that the plumbing companies will be charging more to the customers or, okay, I

Speaker 1  34:39
mean, that's just, that's economics. 101, there's less of them. They can charge whatever they want, because you have to have it. It's either that or you're going to YouTube it and figure it out yourself.

Unknown Speaker  34:49
Don't want to do that with plumbing, yeah?

Speaker 1  34:52
Well, I mean, they say there's you only need to know two things to be a plumber, right?

Speaker 3  34:56
Did you know that? I don't know about that one.

Unknown Speaker  34:59
Yeah. Crap rolls downhill, and don't bite your fingernails.

Unknown Speaker  35:05
I bite my fingernails. I can't believe you haven't heard that joke. That's an old

Speaker 1  35:20
one. Anybody else have a question on this topic before we go to the mentorship?

Unknown Speaker  35:31
Okay?
