Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. It is Thursday, September 18, 2025 this is money Language Academy. I'm Shane, and what we're going to talk about tonight is we're going to get into business acquisition. Again, everybody's favorite topic, but specifically, the difference between analyzing a business that includes real estate, as opposed to one that does not include real estate. The pros and cons of each because oftentimes you have an option. A lot of times you'll see these listings and they will say, you know, sometimes they say real estate included, and sometimes they say real estate not included, but they're willing to negotiate to add that in. So in situations like that, you need to be able to know what is the best deal for you and what type of situation that you want to get in. Because really, there are pros and cons to each it just depends on what your situation is and what your end game is with. I don't care what investment it is, I don't care how good of a deal it is. You need to have multiple End Games set up and and decided upon before you even get into it. So just like in real estate, if you're thinking, Okay, I'm going to get a duplex. Okay, what's your endgame? There are you going to get a duplex, hold it for 10 years and then sell it, try to make some money on, on, you know, the appreciation, try to cash flow the whole time, get some tax benefits, and then 1031 exchange that to a bigger property, or just cash out, or, you know, cash out refi and buy another property and keep that one that. I mean, you just need to know what your goals are, even if it's, you know, buying stocks or buying crypto or whatever. If you don't know what your your ideal situation is and how to get out of it, or if you want to buy and hold indefinitely, that is also acceptable. But you need to know before you get into the investment what you're going to do, before you do it. A lot of people get in and just hope for the best and think they're gonna figure it out when you know things turn or a couple years from now, or whatever, but you need to know ahead of time.

Unknown Speaker  02:11
So without further ado, let's get this going.

Speaker 1  02:19
So so I figured we would just go through the pros and cons first, and then we could kind of analyze live a couple of businesses maybe that have real estate, so you can see what I'm talking about. So buying a business without real estate can have advantages. You know, everybody's like, well, you want to own the building. Why would you want to lease it? Why would you want to give a portion of the money to somebody else? But there are advantages, right? Because you don't have to pay as much money. You're not risking as much if you buy a business that does not include the real estate, you know, you have greater flexibility where you can relocate. So same, say it's in not that great of an area, but it's a solid business. Maybe you increase the business, you increase the revenues and the profit, and you think, Well, okay, we need to expand. We need a bigger building. We need to go to a higher traffic area. Then when your lease is done, you can easily just go, you don't have to worry about, you know, selling and buying another one and dealing with the loan that you got for that that property. So you can focus more on the business itself and the operations. And also it's, you know, you can get funded more quickly because you don't have to worry about appraisals. You don't have to worry about the insurance and little things that come up with buying commercial property. But what about buying it without real estate? The disadvantages are you have to pay someone. It's almost like a sunk cost. You're paying someone the lease, which can be very expensive, you know, high traffic areas. You can you can pay like, like, large commercial buildings, 30 $35,000 a month in a lease for a big like a warehouse or something like that. Just depends on where it's at, how big it is, the quality of the property. You just never know. The landlord controls the terms. They still own it. A lot of times you have to get permission to make improvements. You have to get permission to do certain things, and they'll put in the lease something like, yeah, you can make improvements, but we have to approve them. And also it has to be a licensed contractor that we also approve. I mean, they can put a lot of little caveats into their lease. So you have to be very careful when it comes to that, and you know, you don't get the appreciation. So if you you know, all you do get is increased lease payments over time, because just about all commercial leases include you. You know, after every year, after every three years or five years, a certain amount increase in the lease payments, and then you have less collateral for financing something in the future. Because when you do when, when you actually include the real estate with the business, you know, you're paying that money off, you're paying that loan off, and you're increasing equity, just like you would in your home. Would in your home, and it gives you power later on for refinancing or taking, you know, lines of credit out against the property. There's a lot of things you can do. And, you know, maybe you want to close the business at some point or sell it to someone else who's going to relocate it, then you still have a commercial property that you can rent somebody else. What about the advantages of buying with real estate? You have stability, where you don't have to worry about some crazy landlord telling you what you have to do. You get the appreciation over time. You get stronger collateral. It's basically the flip side of what we just talked about, potential rental income. You could actually sublease a certain portion of it, if the building is too large, or maybe it has a back parking lot that you could put storage containers in there and make some potential extra revenue you just never know. And then the tax benefits you get depreciation, you get a bunch of deductions for upkeep. You get all the traditional advantages of owning real estate and investment property by owning that real estate, but the disadvantages way more money up front. You know, you have to bring a pretty sizable down payment, usually more than 10% when it comes to especially traditional banks, you know, a lot of times they're going to want 25% because it's a lot bigger loan, it's a lot more risk, but you'd still have an actual asset, a physical asset, that's going to hold stand good for that loan, which that can help you get approved, but you're going to have to bring more money up front. You can't relocate. You have to do the property management yourself. A lot of times, even with the lease, you have to do the property management yourself. You know, you have a triple net lease where any of the improvements, any repairs, any of that stuff you're responsible for, and then your capital is tied up in there, in the real estate, as opposed to being put back into your business to fuel growth. And the name of the game in business is growth. If you can get into a business and grow it by 50% and five years down the road, you're ready to sell it, you have made quite a bit of money because you've already paid it off. You've grown it so much, and hopefully, you've put systems in place. You've made it absentee. You've done all the things that we've talked about in multiple videos to make it appealing to a buyer, if that's what you want to do, if that's your exit strategy. So some of the key considerations are the industry type, how important is the location? What's up with the property values in that area? Is the business in an area that is on the rise or on the decline? And then the financing is is quite a bit different. SBA loans will cover both, but it's a different loan vehicle with different restrictions and different guidelines and but also a different payback schedule, which is what we'll talk about. And you know, owning the real estate can increase the resale value, because there are some business buyers that don't want a business unless the real estate is included, especially, you know, private equity firms, larger corporations or larger like, say, for instance, you have a pretty good size nail salon, and there's a franchise, or, you know, A nail salon conglomerate that has 1520, of those. A lot of times those corporations will only buy one that includes the real estate because they don't want to deal with the lease. So you can see there's advantage. I'm not going to go over them again, but there's advantages and disadvantages to both. But it just depends on what your goals are, how much money you can bring to the table, and what your strategy is for exit at some point. Are, is this a long term investment for you? Is this something that you're going to, you're going to buy this business, hold it for five years, grow it, sell it, move on. Is it the kind of the decade to decadence thing where you're gonna you're gonna buy a business. Use the cash flow to buy another business. You keep growing and growing and growing until you get to a certain point where you can sell them all, and then, you know, retire to the beach, sipping my ties every day, whatever. You just need to know that ahead of time. So okay, let's go look at some businesses now, just, let's put a. The actual face to this thing, so you can see what I'm talking about. So I just put, all I did is I went to biz, buy, sell. I put Texas in the filters. I put must include real estate. So I thought we could just see what's out here, see what's available, and see if there's anything that's that kind of stands out. There's a car lot, collision shop. Okay, this is kind of this is a cheaper one for real estate included. That's not bad. So let's look at this one. They don't have the cash flow, so that's a bummer. We're not going to be able to do this one. Okay, let's find something else. Let's do this one, the towing company right here. Okay, Dallas, Fort Worth it's been around for 20 years. It has 1.1 million in real estate, and it makes 828,000 cash flow, and the asking price is 3800 or 3,000,800 so there's a couple of ways that you can analyze this. You can say, I'm I'm going to not even pay attention to the real estate, and I'm going to just look at the business itself. And that's what I usually do. I usually do. I usually break it into two parts. I look at the business by itself. I look at the real estate by itself, and then I'll look at the debt servicing with both of them coupled together. So we won't even worry about whether it's a good deal or not. For now, I just want to show you the process, but it looks like it might be, you know, 2005

Unknown Speaker  11:46
if you take that off, what is that? That's 2.7

Speaker 1  11:49
so we're really close to that three multiple that we like. It's might be a little bit overpriced, but you might be able to negotiate that down more like, I don't know, 3.5 3.6 something like that. Um, wow. It's got 570 in FF and E. So they have a must have a lot of tow trucks and stuff, 18 employees.

Unknown Speaker  12:17
Yeah, it's not bad.

Speaker 1  12:20
Okay, so let's analyze this sucker. So let's do the business first, as opposed to trying to do all at once. Okay, so I pull up the analyzer. This is the same one that's in the resources and we've got, let's do the business first. So that is 2.7 million would be just the business by itself,

Unknown Speaker  12:48
okay? And the cash flow 828,000

Speaker 1  12:59
okay, you can see that that multiple is a little high. We want that to be three or less. So that already tells you that it's a little bit pricey.

Unknown Speaker  13:11
The gross revenue is 1.3 million,

Speaker 1  13:19
FF and E was what four or 570

Unknown Speaker  13:30
if they had inventory, and see that doesn't look like they have any inventory. Okay, zero on that one. All right.

Speaker 1  13:48
So you can see that if, if it's a SBA loan for 10 years only the business itself, we're estimating around 10% because it's, you know, about 2.5 over prime rate, that even, even at this price, which is a little bit inflated and outside of the system, but it's a 1.85 DSCR, a bank will still fund this. The SBA would still fund this. I don't necessarily like them that are this low of a DSCR, because it's going to take you quite a while to pay off that debt. But if you could get this down to, let's say five they were there, so 2.5 million. So if you can get them to come down 200,000 this deal starts to make sense. You got a DSCR of two, your multiple is a flat three. So anything you know 2.5 or less probably works. So even after paying off the debt, your cash flow is over 400,000 a year. Okay, and you're going to put, did we put the down payment in here and automatically did it? Yeah, so we're. But look at this. It's a pretty big down payment, right? You're, that's 137,000 so this is, this is what I'm talking this is a big beefy business, but it could be a good deal. So now let's, let's think about, we'll add the real estate to it. So let's change these numbers. So 3.8 million. Okay, all of that stuff stays the same, but the key difference here is the horizon on paying back that debt. The SBA will let you pay it back in 25 years, because it includes real estate the most banks will go 25 or 30 years. So that makes a huge difference. So look at what I did. Even though the the purchase the multiple, the multiple becomes really high when you include the real estate, but you don't pay attention to this multiple when real estate is involved, it's it's a separate thing it does. It kind of skews the system that we use. The system that we use is only for non real estate based businesses. So then it becomes the DSCR itself. Okay, so the DSCR itself is a 1.9 that's not too bad. I still like upwards of a two better than than anything less than a two. So say you could get them down to 3.6 There you go. That's not too bad. So basically, for about the same deal, but you had to put a lot bigger down payment. Look at this down payment now it's almost $200,000 so if you have the ability to bring a bigger down payment, you can actually get the real estate and still almost cash flow the same. I know these numbers are really high, but if you think about we were cash flowing earlier, at what, 440 without the real estate, but you add the real estate to it, because the payback window is 25 years instead of 10, it puts your your year over year cash flow at about the same so it's not that much different, and you get the real estate with it. So again, it comes down to what your strategy is and what matters. So let's look at another one and see if I can find another one real quick. Another one real fast. Maybe it's something that's less expensive, that was a big one. So warehouse.

Unknown Speaker  17:31
Oh, there's one for 28 million. Hmm.

Speaker 1  17:37
Oh, here we go, daycare center, mount, pleasant, Texas,

Unknown Speaker  17:44
no cash flow, darn it.

Unknown Speaker  17:55
Doesn't include a asking price.

Speaker 1  18:02
And yeah, this is a scam. If it says they want 90,000 and the cash flow is 300,000 just skip it. It's not worth even wasting your time, because it's not real. Come on, surely there's one. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  18:23
A business doesn't say what kind of business it

Unknown Speaker  18:35
is, yeah, no, that's not even a business.

Unknown Speaker  18:44
Okay. I picked Texas because I figured it. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  18:51
It's a restaurant, but that's all right, it'll work.

Speaker 1  18:56
Okay, so let's, let's analyze this one. Well, it doesn't say it's not gonna work. It doesn't say how much the real estate costs. Estate costs. Never mind dog boarding and dog daycare. Okay, now we're talking I like these businesses anyway, because I'm a dog lover, and I know how hard it is to find a good boarding situation. So okay, so let's analyze this business by itself. It's too new. I wouldn't want it, but we can still look at the numbers. So 750

Unknown Speaker  19:41
the real estate is 650 so really, you're paying $100,000

Speaker 1  19:45
for this business, if you think about it. So you can already tell right there that if you're paying 100,000 for the business and it cash flows 100 that's a smoking deal, okay, but let's, let's put them both together and see what we got.

Unknown Speaker  19:58
So. Five, okay, 750,

Unknown Speaker  20:08
cash flow is 106

Unknown Speaker  20:21
revenue 198,

Unknown Speaker  20:31
probably no FF and E,

Unknown Speaker  20:35
no 100,000 Okay, oops.

Speaker 1  20:55
Okay, so this is more realistic, right? You have to bring a down payment in order to get working capital and everything of about 40 grand, all right, but look at this DSCR. It's below 1.5 even with 25 years in there. So even though that business by itself is a great deal, this is a good example of you throw the real estate in it, and it ends up not being that great a deal, right? So your cash flow went from 100,000 to 20,000 so in what situation would this be a good deal? Possibly, if you could live here, like if they live on site, so you'd be buying a home and a business at the same time, which is probably what they do. It doesn't really say

Unknown Speaker  21:53
square footage is 2800 so maybe not.

Speaker 1  22:00
But you can just see right there how everything changes. Right? If we were going to do the business by itself, let's do that. The business by itself, without the real estate is a nine DSCR the multiple is point nine. You don't see that in in business acquisition ever, unless somebody is in some serious trouble, like going, I don't know, like who I've never seen a DSCR that high, but it completely changes everything. Oh, even I got, me put it back to 10, Even so 6.4 you're not going to see business for sale with that high of a DSCR. But you see what I mean. The terms are completely different with real estate. And if you're a real estate investor, you like real estate. You like the long term benefits. You like the tax benefits you're going to buy and hold a business for quite a while, or you're planning on buying and growing, maybe branching out to another location, getting closer to the, you know, to a higher traffic area and, you know, more in the city, whatever. There you go. Or if you just really like the property itself, which this looks like, it might have a little bit of land. You could put another building out there. You could expand all that kind of stuff is an advantage. You get to actually owning the real estate as well. But it's a different animal. It's a different ball game.

Unknown Speaker  23:32
Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  23:37
Anybody have any questions about you know, what the difference is and why it matters. And have you been looking at businesses that have real estate included? Are you pretty much just not including those because the prices are so high? Generally, what you find is that people that are just getting started in business acquisition Don't, don't even try to buy the real estate, just because the, you know, the barrier to entry is so much more difficult, because you have to bring so much more capital upfront.

Speaker 2  24:11
I have looked at some businesses that offer real estate, mainly because I was thinking, like, oh, you know, like, could potentially sell the business and the real estate later on. And real estate typically appreciates, right? But I have found that, like, yeah, it's just so much more capital involved, and it makes it, like, really hard to have a barrier to entry in that,

Speaker 1  24:41
yeah, I think so. What I tend to look for is a business without real estate included, but that maybe after you grow the business, you might have an opportunity to buy the real estate from the old owner, especially if the old owners, you know, like in this situation, you know, if you could talk them into. Or possibly letting you sell or finance just the real estate portion, or taking over their payments, you know, some kind of sub to I mean, there's, there's a lot of other options with real estate that you don't get with business So, but, yeah, that's what I look for businesses that I don't have to buy the real estate, but maybe in three years, the opportunity might come up, and especially if I can put it into the contract like a right of first refusal if they ever decide to sell, that's ideal, because even if I don't want to, I want them to at least ask,

Speaker 3  25:38
yeah, I plan on doing that in the future. I'm actually interested in commercial real estate, so I definitely plan on buying a business with real estate one day, just not to start off with, because I just don't have that big of a down payment right now.

Speaker 1  25:52
Yeah, and it's a whole different thing, right? Making a large down payment,

Speaker 3  25:58
yeah, but I feel like once I get the hold of the first few businesses I buy, and I get that down pack, then I will be ready to do buy business with commercial estate included.

Speaker 1  26:11
Yep, definitely. That's the goal, right. Grow, grow, grow. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  26:26
anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 3  26:31
I do so I seen that the business was open that we were just showing it started in 2021 would that would have still been a good business to get?

Speaker 1  26:39
No, I want them, I won't even consider a business unless it's been around for five years, ideally seven or more, though, but five is a deal breaker for me. I mean, I just it hasn't been through enough. You know? Why would someone start a business or buy a business and only hold it for five years, and unless they've grown it to, you know, way bigger than it was, and it was a fix it like a flip kind of situation. If that's the case, then, then maybe. But usually what you see is somebody bought a business, or they started one, and it's overwhelming to them. They can't handle it, and it's got issues, and they want to get rid

Speaker 3  27:23
of it. Is it possible for like you to do an example of like um, once you do get the business, and you know, well, not get the business, but You're in cahoots with the owner of it, and they start sending you over like the um, the files for the business, like, how much they make a year. So like, you go through it and make sure that the numbers are right. Can you go through, like, an example of that?

Speaker 1  27:48
Yeah, I mean, there's, there's a video out there where I do that. Let me see if I can find it for you. We went pretty in depth in that, because I don't have any financials that I could just go through to show you that right now, I haven't been real. I haven't found anything recently that's worth a look at. So let's go back here business. There it is, financials breakdown. So this one, we actually look through some financials and break it down. So so it goes in stages, right? So if you found the listing, and the numbers that are in the listing are what you consider to be a good deal, what you're doing with the financials is you're verifying what you saw in the listing. So the first thing you're going to do is you compare what you saw on the listing to the profit and loss statements, and if those match up, and it makes sense to you, then you compare the profit and loss statements to the tax returns, and you know that's what you're verifying by what they're saying that they earned and or lost is what they reported to the federal government that they earned and or lost. Because you're never going to see somebody inflate profit numbers on a tax return, because it costs them more in taxes. They're always going to go the other direction and try to try to show that they made less money so they don't pay more taxes, right? But that's kind of the process there. I would check out that video and just kind of see, see how that works. And we can, we can always do it again. And I'm, I'm definitely game for if you get some financials and you redact them, if you have to sign a, you know, an NDA or something. But we can go through there and we can do it live.

Speaker 3  29:45
Even if I do have to sign an NDA, can we still go through it?

Speaker 1  29:49
Well, I mean, if you sign an NDA, you have to at least go through there and make sure that the name of the business, and, you know, nothing, there's nothing we could tie back to. Where it actually is or what it is. So make it anonymous. That's okay, but like, if it says what it is, now you can get in trouble for that. I don't want anybody get in trouble, because you got to think we're recording this, right?

Speaker 3  30:13
Yeah, yeah. Well, maybe, like, we can stop the recording when I show my financials, maybe,

Speaker 1  30:20
oh, you guys didn't even see that when I was looking at I found the video. Sorry, here, yeah, here's the video, right here. It's in the business acquisition section, financials breakdown.

Speaker 3  30:31
So do you recommend still getting an accountant even after like you go through the financials?

Speaker 1  30:37
Yeah, so after, after you go through the financials, let's you mind if we switch to the mentorship and talk about this?

Unknown Speaker  30:44
Um, oh, my, okay. All right, let me do that. I.
