Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everybody. This is money Language Academy. Tonight's course is going to be called. It's, it's tentatively called a decade to decadence, and I'm still working on the name, but I like alliteration. And it's, I think it serves its purpose, but it's kind of contrary, a little bit contrary to what we've been talking about, because we've just been talking about how to find that initial business, how to vet it, and everything. We don't talk long term about your options after that. You know, you find a business, you buy it, then what you run it, you get the cash flow. But what happens next? What are your options after that? What's your end game? You know, and just like real estate, any investment, you have to have an end game, whether, if it's the stock market, it's, I'm going to keep this for 20 years, and I know it's going to appreciate it a certain amount every year, and that's my end game, you know, it gets to a certain point, it gives me dividends, or it's, you know, gained enough value, I can sell it. Whatever your end game is, you just need to know that before you get into any investment, but especially real estate and buying businesses. So that's what we're going to talk about now. And it's going to be that that that 10 year plan. So one thing I want to say is that everybody that's been coming to the lives recently that's in the community has been doing an awesome job of answering the questions, right, like some people, because it's hard to keep up with the questions, and people will put whatever. Hey, how do you do this? Or whatever? And you guys are on it. That's amazing. That's really cool. So what I want to do is cut since, since we have, like, a knowledge base now, everybody's got that stuff, I want to expand on that and kind of talk about the why behind those things, the why behind some of those guidelines and rules, because that's really how you start to see how these pieces fit together. Okay, so we're going to first though, like, like, any other time, we're going to talk about the community and make sure that everybody, in here understands how the community works, and we don't have any new people, so I don't really have to explain that, but think everything's going well. Everybody's answering questions and putting stuff out there. I love it. We're building a solid foundation for the future. So what I wanted to talk about first is one of the safest investments that you can get into. So let me share my screen, and we'll get into this a little bit. Okay. So specifically what I wanted to talk about was the different index funds, okay, the Vanguard, the VO, is what it's called. It's basically an S and p5 100 fund. It's an index fund. So they invest behind the scenes. They take care of everything, right? But what I want you to look at is this, you know, this thing has been around for for decades, and the average return is over 11% it was actually higher than that before the craziness that we just had the last couple of days, last couple of weeks. I should say it was really more like 1314, I think. But it just really, really hit a brick wall, because you can see this five year, you know, it was 18, so it's kind of averaged. In between, there is where it was. So that's the voo, and it's Vanguard, one of the biggest financial institutions in the world. They know what they're doing. They know better than any one of us how to properly invest, and you just essentially give them that money, and they take care of it for you. So that's one. The other one I want to, I want to show you is Q, Q, Q, okay, so the Q, Q, Q, similar. It's a, you know, it's an index fund. But what you can see here is the 10 year. It hasn't been around as long as Vanguard, but you can see the 10 year return on that is 16.9% that's really, really good for something that is completely and totally passive. Okay, I just wanted to introduce that to you, and then we're going to move on to the fun stuff, the business stuff. So what I wanted to talk about tonight first, though, is SBA loans. I think there's a little bit of a misconception of what the SBA does and what they don't do. And I think if you've heard me talk, and you know, in lives or whatever, before, I've talked about

Unknown Speaker  04:34
three, like the sweet spot being 350,000

Speaker 1  04:37
for an SBA loan. And the reason why I say that is because the SBA seven. Let me see if I can find I have a little thing where I can show it maybe, there it is. So this is in your community documents. It's kind of a breakdown in SBA stuff in general, but this is what I wanted to show you. Is the difference between S. B, a, 504, and a, seven, a. What this doesn't really say, and I need to add to it, is that the SBA on a seven a loan, if it's less than 350,000

Unknown Speaker  05:13
wants to see 20% down.

Speaker 1  05:16
Okay, so it the small businesses they feel like are riskier. So if you've got one for 202 50, they're looking for 20% down. And I feel like there's a little bit of a misconception over those real small businesses, the sweet spot is 350 to 5 million. That's really what, what you're looking for right there, to get that 10% down. So if you think about you have a business for that is asking, they're asking 300,000 for it. You know, you would have to put in 60 grand on that one, whereas if it's 350 you put 35 down. That's why there's that sweet spot there with the SBA. And the reason why they say that is because there's a certain size where it becomes less risky those really small ones that are dependent upon the owners. And, you know, any one little, small thing can throw them off kilter, that becomes a problem. So that's the SBA seven a so just remember that when you're looking at businesses, if you're if you're struggling with the down payment, you're going to want to try to get 350 and getting 350 will actually save you more cash out of pocket than 300 will okay if you're using SBA. Now, the 504 is real estate included. That's what the 504 is for. Now, so they'll say on listings, they'll say real estate included, or they'll give you real estate not included, and give you the figures for whatever the real estate costs, and you can figure out if maybe you want to structure that into the deal or not. Now, obviously they are much more expensive with the real estate. However, you amortize it at 25 years generally. So this right here. And so some people will tell you that you can get 30 years with the SBA. I have not found that to be true. Every time I talk to an SBA lender, it's 25 and even commercial lenders at traditional banks, 25 is kind of their limit if it's a commercial loan and with real estate, but that extra 15 years on that loan, you know, and it says you can get up to 25 years on real estate, but they're going to switch you over to 504 they're going to want you to use 504 because that's what it's for. But generally it's going to be up to 10 years. And you can get working capital. You can get all that stuff. There's so much. If you ever look at the SBA requirements, the SBA guidelines, I mean, it's a huge, huge book of stuff. That's why the SBA lender themselves is a valuable asset. But just remember that if it's got real estate, it's 25 years. And if it's got, it doesn't have real estate, you're looking for 350, to 5 million, and it's going to be 10 years,

Speaker 2  07:49
Shane, when you're evaluating, excuse me, when you're evaluating the businesses that include real estate. So, so I think most of what you end up communicating is, you know, it needs to be a factor of three for the work, I mean, for the cash flow to the asking price. What factor do you use when you're saying, okay? Because one, I think you're usually saying, Okay, you're evaluating trying to pay this thing off in max of 10 years. The real estate can go much longer. So what mathematically are you doing to evaluate is this one a good deal, because there's a real estate component.

Speaker 1  08:21
Now, okay, that's a great question. So, so I evaluate in two pieces. First, the business by itself, without the real estate, you know, you just look at that the same way that you would with the real estate. Just just look to see what the cash flow is. It should it should be. It's standalone. It should make enough money. And then you look as far as the real estate, what you're going to have to do is you're going to have to Google the the price per square foot in that city for commercial real estate of that type, and see if they have it priced at a similar rate to what is market value, you know, you'll know if it's, you know, vastly overpriced or under priced, or whatever, right, right on par, if it is in that vicinity, really close, then you can put it together and run The numbers in the spreadsheet as a 504 loan, and because it's amortized and an extra 15 years, sometimes, if the business itself doesn't meet the 3x multiplier, it will with that extra 15 years, and it still becomes a good deal. It just means that you're not going to be able to pay it off quickly. So if your goal is to pay it off quickly and move on or whatever, then it doesn't work. But if you want a long like a slow burn, just good, steady cash flow year after year, plus the appreciation of the real estate, then it becomes a good deal. But you just have to know what your goals are getting into it.

Speaker 2  09:35
So the tool in there also basically lets you figure out is, is this total amount of both, will the cash flow still support servicing the debt?

Speaker 1  09:46
Yes, exactly, exactly, because, really, all, all that matters is what they want every month. And can the business cover both the real estate and and the business itself, but and you also depending on the what? The real estate is, you know, you so you have to occupy 51% of whatever it is with the business. But that doesn't mean that whatever's there you can't rent out or lease put storage units. You can't, you know, there's a lot of things you can do with that other that empty real estate or whatever it is. So that's another consideration too. You can add value easily, sometimes by putting you can even this is what I see people do. Like, say, you have a parking lot, it's not really used in the in the like, you have whatever shop up front. You have a large parking lot in the back that's hardly used. You can put one of those shipping containers back there, two of the 234, those shipping containers. And those are storage containers that people pay monthly for. I mean, there's a lot of lot of different things you can do. You can park RVs back there, if it's especially auto repair. You were just saying you were looking at auto repair. They usually have a fenced in parking lot that's secure. So people want to park their vehicles in a fenced in parking lot so they're safe, especially RVs and things for long term, sir. There's just so many options when real estate is involved, so you just have to factor all that stuff in.

Speaker 2  11:07
You ever see it where someone buys the business and the real estate, then say, over time, the real estate goes up in value, and then they just say, hey, I want to sell this real estate and then still keep the business.

Speaker 1  11:17
Yeah, oh yeah. What I see more of, though, is the owner, owns both the real estate and the business, right? They sell the business and hold the real estate and just collect the lease, right, right. Okay, you know, I see that quite, quite a bit. Okay, yeah. So I just, I just wanted to make people aware, you know, and these are just two of the loan vehicles for the SBA, just to, you know, there's SBA express, there's, there's a whole bunch of different ones. Just know that when, when you're looking the reason why the sweet spot for a seven a loan is 350 is because of that down payment. You notice here it doesn't say 10% it says minimum of 10% often more. You know, that's because that's how those guidelines work. Okay? So one thing that changes people's success rate, and in my opinion, is certain people act and certain people don't act right? And there's going to be a lot of people that have a lot of big dreams, lofty dreams, and they're not ever going to do anything because they're waiting for that big perfect deal that doesn't exist. And I, I don't know how you can get past that, other than when I when I look at at people that I know around me that are very successful, when I read biographies, when I look at just interviews with very successful people, there was always a certain point in their life where they said, I'm tired of the way my life is, and I'm going to do something to change it. And they take action. So remember that if you're if you're scared, you have to overcome that and just rely on the fact that you've done all the work you can to take all the guesswork out of it. Now, things can still happen, right? That can be overcome, but like action is so vital to success, you can sit around and analyze businesses for months and months and months and months and months. You're never going to find one that's absolutely perfect, that's life, right? But you'll find good deals, and that's what matters. And when you find a good deal, and you have the funding, and you you you're ready to actually take it, take it down, then take it down, you know, that's some at a certain point, you're going to have to bite the bullet and say, Okay, I'm I'm taking this risk head on, and I'm going to do this, and I'm going to see it through, but just remember that, okay. So what I'm going to talk about now is that is the decade decadence, and what this involves is people, everybody's in a different place in their life right now. We might have people that are just trying to get started. We might have people that are retired, people that are in the middle of their career. You know, maximum earners, I think it's like 35 to 60 or something is like the maximum earning that you're ever going to make in your life, right? Because you're, I don't know you're just you're a professional or whatever you've been doing, whatever it is that you do, for a long time, and that's the most money you're going to make. So, or you might have people that are retired and looking for the easier income. So this plan is really structured in a way that should address everybody, and you can just exit at different points in the plan. So, but it kind of assumes at the beginning that you have a job and you're going to keep your job for a while, just like, just like what I'm doing with with mine. I keep my job. I run the businesses on the side. Sometimes I'm running around crazy, and then sometimes I don't have anything to do it. Just. It comes and goes, right? It's in waves. But you have to be prepared for that. So everybody knows, because people have been asked answering it in the lives that the SBA will only lend within a 200 mile radius of your house, right? So what I did, I just kind of want, I wanted to show you how actually big A 200 mile radius is. So you're looking for these businesses, and everybody's pretty much putting in their own state, right? And you look for it, but if you look at this, I just picked a random address. I didn't even know if this was real address. I picked it in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and this is calc maps.com and I can, I can throw this out there, but you can, you can just look right. There it was in Tulsa. And here's my 200 mile radius. It goes through Oklahoma, Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, and I think it might even dip a little bit into Texas. So if you think about that, if you widen your search, and not care about the state boundaries. It really opens things up, right? The possibilities in this 200 mile radius are huge. So that's what I did, and I started looking for businesses for the sake of of this example, in these four states, okay? And I did it ahead of time, because I didn't want to have to didn't want to have to look through everything to show you, everybody how this can work. But what I found is the first one, I think you've already seen this one, is I found this one in Osage County, Oklahoma, and it's, it looks like it meets our criteria, right? You can see that it's got 210,000 cash flow. You know that multiple is just a little little over two. That's not bad at all. 2014 the employees are little bit small, but not too much. They have support and training, and it says needs to finance a new project. I don't think that's necessarily a deal breaker, and I'll show you why here in a second. But this meets our criteria, right? So I went ahead. Let's go ahead and plug it into the analyzer here, just to make sure we've got 500,002 10. So the asking price is 500,000 cash flow is 210 See, our multiple is 2.4 that's really good. Anything less than three,

Unknown Speaker  17:31
790 is the gross revenue.

Speaker 1  17:38
Okay, now the rest of this pretty much stays the same once you have it in the way you want 10% down payment, right? Because it's over 350,000 that's in our wheelhouse. And we'll put 10 years, put around 11% and you can see after debt, cash flow is 128,000 so it's going to bring 128,000 back to your pocket every single year, and it's got a DSCR of 2.57 which is really good. Any any lender is going to fund a deal with a 2.57 DSCR That's almost double, that's over double of what their minimum is. So what I've done in this particular spreadsheet, and I can, I can save in the community if you want. But I've kind of gone in stages here. So this very first one is the lawn care business, and you can see it's got all the particulars on it. Here's the debt payments, right? The very first year. The reason why it is inflated, because you're paying yourself back that $50,000 okay? Everybody that buy that's going to buy your first business, or your second, your third, your fourth, whatever, pay yourself back the down payment the first year. Don't because, because if you know, if something bad happens later, you're not personally on the hook for that money, right? You at least paid yourself back. So you have an asset you paid yourself back, and then it's producing money with no out of cash, out of pocket expense after that, because you got all your money back. So I would recommend everybody pay yourself back initially. So what we care about in this 10 year plan, this decade, is we care about years three. We care about years five. Okay, so you buy that business the very first year, you have to pay back 131,000 in debt, but you still have 78,000 in cash flow. That's just on the side because you're already working your job. Second year, since you don't have to pay yourself back, you got 128 and you get 128 here. Okay? So at the end of this, you know, you add up all these, which I'll show you why that's actually less, right. There, you add up all these, that is a big down payment on another business in three years. Okay, big down payment, huge. So. What I did is, if you think about year threes, like, Okay, I'm trying. I'm going to scale, because the the end of this road is to not have to ever worry about money, ever again, and not have to work. Right? Nobody wants to work. I don't want a job. If I don't have to have a job necessarily, like, no, nobody. I want to be able to sit on a beach and not have to even have zoom calls with businesses, not have to do any of that stuff, because you've got enough money coming in from all these diverse revenue streams. So that's the goal of this 10 year plan. So you, you're sitting at year three, you've got all this cash, which is what, I don't know, 260 it's three something, right? So I found another one. Let's, let's go check this one out. This one is a home improvements business in the same radius. Here it is. Let's look at this one. It's bigger. Obviously. It's a $1 million business, so you're gonna, you have to bring over $100,000 to this business. But it's in the sweet spot. It's in the 350, to $5 million range. This thing cash flows $511,000 per year. That's really good. It's been around since 1973 it's got eight employees. It's got, you know, a bunch of FF and E support. I mean, we don't know why they're leaving necessarily, but all this stuff looks good, right? And I would assume, if the person started in 1973 they're probably ready to retire. That'd be my guess with that, they just don't say it. But there you go. So let's plug these numbers in. Let's go back to the spreadsheet, which is what we do. We plug these numbers in just to verify and we've got 1022848848, is the asking price, cash flow. We'll just say five. That's 511, 424, we'll put the exact numbers in. Okay, this one, well less than a three. It's exactly a two, which it's obvious. They did that on purpose, right? There's no way those numbers are exactly half okay, like they said, you know, we want to put this as a multiple of two to sell it quickly. That's my guest there, because they know they can get more for this business. So for whatever reason they they need to sell it. I would imagine it's personal. All this other stuff is about the same. Oh, wait, gross revenue. Put that in there. Gross revenue, 1.155990

Unknown Speaker  22:42
oh,

Speaker 1  22:49
okay, which is a little low compared to the asking price, but it's about on par for the cash flow. Okay, so let's, let's look at this. The after debt cash flow on this joker, is $344,000 per year. 344,000 the DSCR is three, and you were able to take this down because you had money from the other business. You already paid yourself back. You you use so you had $50,000 initial down payment that either you had a HELOC, you did capital stacking, you saved and you might have even gotten the original owner to finance half of it. I looked at some numbers today and it said that I was under the impression it was 35% of all business acquisition has owner financing. They're saying it's more like 70% so most of these deals, at least in the last five years, have some sort of seller financing of the down payment, or the total, or whatever. So it might even be reduced out of your pocket. So it's very possible that you got this thing at $25,000 down, and now you're, you're building out into a second one. Okay, so let's, let's look at this. You buy the second one. That's where this 110 comes out, because you had to put $110,000 down. So you buy this at year three, and look at your numbers. After year three, the first one, you're going to pay yourself back. So it's higher, right? You only make 221, that first one, the second year you own that thing, it's 331,000 Okay, so at year five, this business has made $500,000

Unknown Speaker  24:31
this original business now has made $480,000

Speaker 1  24:36
that's a million dollars in five years. And you put $50,000 down and paid yourself back in the first year. And I would challenge anybody out there to find an investment that you can put $50,000 down today and five years from now, have a million dollars in cash. They just don't exist. Business. Business acquisition is. The only way that I found unless you're gambling or hit the lottery or something like that, like it just, it just doesn't happen. Okay? And it's, I'm not saying that it's easy. It comes with all kinds of stress. It comes with difficult times and dealing with people sometimes, but is very, rewarding, but we're not done. So five years from now, you're a millionaire, but there's still one more step, because you're only at year five. So we're going to do the same thing that we just did. We're going to take our cash flow that we have now, and we're going to find another really good business, and I found this one, which is a another it's a lawn and landscaping business. It's in Platte County, Missouri, still within 200 mile radius of Tulsa. I believe they want 1.1 for it, cash flows, 360,000 the margins aren't quite as good as the last one that we just got, but it's still very good. It's been around since 1996 you could decide if you wanted to get the real estate or not. I'm doing it as as if we're not getting the real estate, because I don't understand why the real estate for a landscaping business would be that important. Just doesn't seem like you know, people aren't coming to the store, so nothing like that. So I'm just gonna not include the real estate in it, but it meets the criteria. It's got 30 employees. They're, you know, they're they're retiring, they're willing to train, so on and so forth, all the things that we're looking for. Okay, so let's plug this one into the spreadsheet. It's 1.1 million.

Unknown Speaker  26:42
Let's go back to our summary here. 1.1 million,

Speaker 1  26:49
and cash flow is 360,000

Unknown Speaker  27:01
general revenue, or gross revenue, is 3.2

Speaker 1  27:10
okay, everything else the same, because we're not getting the real estate. If we were considering the real estate, we put a 25 in there, and then see what that would look like. And we can, but we'd have to add another 450,000 to that asking price too. So let's just keep it simple for the time being, still DSCR two, which golden. Now the multiple is a little bit high, but at this point, if it's a solid business, and you've got all that other revenue coming in, and once you know the end game, I think, I think you'll be fine with it, but still, it's right in the wheelhouse. Also too. About the the SBA seven a loan, you can't have more than $5 million on a seven day loan total for all the bits. So if you go multiple years, 5 million is the cap. So right now we're sitting at 500 for the first one, about a million for the second one, about a million for the third one. So we're well within the parameters there. But this thing after that cash flow is 179,000 so basically another 180,000 on top of everything. So let's go. Let's go look at this one one thing though, if at this point after year five or really, depending on you, if you really hate your job, you could have start pulling a salary from this money if you want to. So that's a that's a personal thing. You know, some people are in this because they absolutely hate their job. Some people are in this because they just want a different future and they're okay with their job. But that's a decision you have to make. So right now I factored this in to where you would keep working for the next five years, and then after five you could quit your job and start pulling a salary because you have diverse income, you know, revenue streams coming in. So, so let's, let's look at this one. So this landscaping business, we take it down, we put, I added a little bit extra in for, you know, whatever closing costs and all that kind of stuff that would go in. So $115,000 down, oh, it looks like I forgot to put the extra in there. So you'd have to pay yourself back. Well, you really don't have to pay yourself back at this point, but it still works. I'll have to add 100,000 in there. I missed that, but anyway, you can see it's 179 per year. Okay, so now we're at year 10. This business has made 1.1 million. This business has made 2.2 million, and this one that you just bought is made almost 900,000 minus 100 so we'll call it 800,000 because I missed that in the calculations. So you're sitting at if we take that 100,000 out at $4.1 million in two years from an initial investment a few. $50,000 and you might have gotten that from credit cards. You might have gotten that from wherever you got that. You know, your aunt Susan let you borrow that money. It doesn't matter. You paid it back to her in the first year, and now you have $4 million in cash in 10 years. Okay, so then, what do you do? Say? I'm tired of these businesses. I really want, I want to, to be able to sit on the beach somewhere, like everybody talks about, like real estate. You they talk about, you get 20 section eight. You never have to worry about anything, even though we all know that's not true. So year 10, what happens? What can you do? So in year 10, you can say, Okay, I'm selling everything I want. I'm cashing out, I'm selling everything I'm moving on, and I want a true passive investment. I don't ever want to have to deal with anybody. I don't want to have to deal with employees. All I want to do is take my fat self from my beach house to my oversized lounge chair because I've gotten so fat, because I'm living the good life, and I lay there and I drink my ties in the sun all day until I die, right? If that's, if that's your idea of a great life, okay? But whatever, whatever it is that you choose to do, you will have have the ability to do that. So at the end of this 10 years, you have that $4 million you have, you can sell the lawn care business now, you bought it for 500,000 it's, it's been going for 10 years. It's completely paid off, completely paid off. And I'm, I added, you know, 20% in there, because it seems like that's a good appreciation in 10 years, that seems valid. The home improvement business, you didn't quite pay it off, but you pay it off. What? Seven years of it, so it's almost paid off. Approximately 800,000 of that would come back to your pocket after you sell it. Even this business right here that you paid 1.12 you know you you've only paid on it for three, three years, or whatever. Or 1234, I guess you bought it in year six. So technically, at the end of 10, you would have about 600,000 so you're left now I'll take the 100,000 off this at $6.1 million in cash. So obviously you have to pay taxes on it. You sell all this stuff. It's it's a big deal. But if you're at this situation, and you list your stuff on biz, buy, sell, and you have retirement, or you have, you know, want to move, whatever you want to do with your money, this kind of situation is the i We're the ideal seller at this point. We're the person that somebody who's hungry is looking for, right? We're on the other we've gone full circle. We're on the other end of this thing, and we're going to take, let's say, taxes. It's not even going to be this much, but let's say it's 1.2 million. Let's say call, we'll call it $5 million cash out. What do you do with that 5 million Well, what were we talking about at the very beginning of this thing? We were talking about VO and Q Q, some of the most solid investments that you can ever make, that this q q q has returned for the last 10 years, 16.9% and if you think about 10 years that includes the pandemic, that includes all the craziness that happened, right? You you put your money in there, and you don't have to worry about anything. Okay, so 16.92 that's where that's at. So if you give it this investment calculator, put 5 million in here, let's say 16.92 and you're not going to you're not going to do anything else, you're not going to add any more money. You're going to do nothing. What does this give us $846,000 of interest per year, even if it's a bad year, let's say, because some of the worst years that I saw in there, it was 11%

Unknown Speaker  33:58
on a very bad year. It's $550,000

Speaker 1  34:02
but let's we'll put that act that that average in there 800,000 so what is that per month of completely and totally passive income?

Unknown Speaker  34:20
$66,000 a month

Speaker 1  34:24
to do nothing other than whatever the hell that you want to do. And see, that's we think the small game. And we think about, you know, what? How do we get into this? How do we get started? But you also have to think about the end game. Now, if at any point you wanted to pull a salary from this, because we weren't buying businesses that were huge, we still kept in our in our range there, even when we got when we scaled, we were at a million and the next one was a million. So even if you pull. A salary for five years, let's say $150,000 salary. What is that? 750,000 so that'd be four to 50, right, still, 680,000 a year, even if you pulled a salary, if you stopped work, so so you could technically stop fully working at year five and still have that kind of passive income. Let's see. What is that per year? My calculator, I lost it 56,000 a month. Okay, that's good. Good. Quick math.

Unknown Speaker  35:44
No, I just had the phone up before you.

Speaker 1  35:48
Okay, yeah, $56,000 a month. So let's just, let's think about that once more. What is that? 14 grand a week? Can you live on 14 grand a week? Yeah, from a $50,000 investment and potentially a $25,000 investment. However, you were disciplined the whole time. You didn't get some good paydays from your business, and, you know, buy a Porsche, do some dumb stuff with it. You stayed disciplined. You stayed on the business. You manage the managers, you did everything that you were supposed to do because you knew what the end game was, and that's why the end game can be as important as the entry point, because you have to know where you're going in order to get there, otherwise you're going to end up somewhere you don't want to be. I know that that seems, that seems so obvious, but so many people just want to get something. They want to buy an asset, and they don't think about why. You know, we want financial freedom. We want this. Put a number on it, put a year on it, put a goal on it. You know, in 10 years, if you've got kids right now, in 10 years, they're in college or whatever, that's going to pay every I don't care if they want to go to college on Mars, you can pay for it at that point. You know if you if you want to you and your parents or whatever you go, you go retire together. It doesn't matter. That's the kind of money that you can do whatever you want to with and never have to worry about anything. And it took 10 years and $50,000 it's crazy.

Unknown Speaker  37:24
So there it is. That's that's a decade to

Speaker 1  37:29
to put your head down and to work five years of that, at least, you're still working your regular job. Your lifestyle hasn't changed as far as your nine to five, but you're putting in some extra hours. You took some risk initially on that 50,000 but at the end of that 10 years, you have that life that everybody dreams of, that everybody lies about on Instagram, that's actually you, if you do it the right way. So there you go, the decade to decadence, unless somebody comes up with a better name, I'll change the name of it.

Speaker 3  38:06
Something also, yeah, yeah. Also, I heard on a podcast that your business is valued over 2 million, and let's say, in the future, if you do like a buy in a similar niche, like, let's, let's say landscaping, right? And if you have multiple businesses, you can sell it for even bigger multiple rate, from a three to eight multiple, right? Let's say, if it's over 2 million, yeah. So that means you can sell it for even more, right? More than, yeah, absolutely.

Speaker 1  38:38
Because so we really had, we had a lawn care and landscaping in there. I don't know how close they were in proximity to make it worth being a portfolio of businesses, but, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Because you're talking about bigger numbers. When you get into bigger numbers, you know, 2 million, $3 million businesses, the multiples get higher. They just do that's you're in, you know, major league Big Boy Terry territory. And it's, it changes the numbers, yeah, yeah, that's a good point, because you you could potentially buy in the same industry. You're an expert after that first one because you've been running it for three years. You buy two more in the same industry, and then you sell all of them at one as one portfolio for a larger price, yeah, 100%

Speaker 2  39:27
Great point. Yeah. My grandfather used to always say, you can you can say it's valued at whatever you want it to be. You still got to find the person that's willing to pay. You can say whatever you know, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  39:41
And, you know, the ones that we picked here were tried and true. They were lawn care, landscaping and home renovation, things that I don't care what AI does. I don't care, you know, even, even if self driving mowers come around, the landscaping business will just buy self driving mowers and not hire as many people. Right, but the business grass is still going to grow right?

Speaker 2  40:05
Stick out the homeowners association saying you got to make sure your line looks right. Otherwise, right.

Speaker 1  40:12
So did ever everybody gets this, though everybody kind of understands how we went from that initial investment, taking that chance, buying business one, keeping in for three years, buying business two and buying business three. So what I've been talking about up to this point was buy one and pay it off as quickly as you can, because that's a single entity, right? It's a cash machine. And then you buy real estate. That's a different model than what this is. This is I want to intensely go build up this wealth and then out, yeah.

Speaker 2  40:51
Good point of it is that I think many people like what you're saying, even if you were thinking about buying multiple businesses. I think most of us believe, okay, you got to pay them off. This one shows, hey, you only really paid off the one, and then the other ones are still having, you know, loans against them, but you're still cashing out with a with a with a boatload of money, huge.

Speaker 1  41:13
We leveraged debt from the very beginning all the way through, and made a huge amount of wealth by using other people's money, banks, money, SBA, whatever, and everybody's scared of debt. And at some point in here, like, I guess at year six, when you buy this one, you have a whole lot of debt. You know, you're talking about two, $2.5 million in debt on these businesses, plus whatever mortgage you might have on your house and stuff. I mean, it could be a lot, but when you do the DTI and you show that the cash flow that you're getting from all of them, you're not using an SBA loan, unless you have to at this, at this third business, there's people you could probably get private money at this point, because you're tried and true, you're you're a legit investor in the ETA space, which eta is under, entrepreneurship through acquisition, right? You don't start businesses, you buy them, you grow them, you sell them.

Speaker 2  42:14
I think one thing you said is, you know, wealthy people say this all the time. Is like, you know, poor people are afraid of debt. Wealthy people use other people's money, but they do leverage the debt. So a lot of people that don't know anything, hey, what does that mean? Or whatever, and but, but all it is is kind of like what you're running the numbers here. It's just an educated, an educated reason to get debt. So just like we can tell ourselves, hey, you have to have some sort of place to live. You know, many of us start off living in, you know, wherever we can, but then at some point, when you get enough money, you say, well, it's smarter to live in a house, because it's an asset and it's going to appreciate and even though it may cost me a little bit more in the long run, I'm not dealing with these fluctuating prices on on the rents going up all the time. And it's a smart investment, even though it's probably the biggest investment. Most people will ever make in their life. So it's just, it's the same concept is, is it worth the risk? Right?

Speaker 1  43:09
And technically, buying a home is a bad investment that you're going to live in. And, you know, it's not, it's not good debt, but there are benefits that come with it. I don't want somebody to tell me what to do in my own place. You know, I don't want somebody that if I've been living here for two years and they decide they want to jack the rent up, or they just want me to move out, they can just not renew the lease, like things like that, I don't want to have to ever deal with so I'm willing to take on a little bit of bad debt for the comfort of myself and my family. But it's still not that bad. I know. Grant Cardone, people like that, just get on to people for buying a house. But Grant Cardone owns like, 10 houses so he can say whatever he wants to say, but, and then as far as as leveraging debt, you know, so poor people are afraid of it. Middle class people use debt to buy things that they can't afford, right? That's what they use debt. They use credit to get debt to buy stuff that they shouldn't be buying, you know. And then the wealthy wealthy know that there's another way around that. And so we're all we're trying to change that mindset, no matter where you're at currently, to know that don't be afraid of debt, not good debt. Be afraid of bad debt. Be afraid of buying a brand new car for no reason, you know, lay away on a pair of shoes or handbag or leather whatever, whatever stuff you like. That's the kind of stuff that will really get you going to a rent to own place for furniture that you don't need. You end up paying almost, like four times the the amount that that furniture would have cost stuff like that. You know, we want to be smart with our money. Not Dave Ramsey crazy, where we don't use debt, but using good debt the right way.

Speaker 4  44:47
Quick question, Shane, for someone younger who doesn't mind going beyond the 10 year plan, would you recommend continuing to buy businesses and grow because I don't mind going into my 30s and. 40s, like with holding on to these businesses after they're paid off, and producing that cash flow?

Speaker 1  45:05
Oh, yeah. I mean, absolutely, you know, this is at any point. You know, somebody could cash out right here, you know, after business too, or you could keep them for 20 years, if you're comfortable with the amount of time that you have to spend running them, or you're comfortable with not, you know, you could. Also, another exit strategy with all three of these is to put, you know, management in place, where you do nothing, I mean, absolutely nothing. You sell some equity in here to somebody that's going to run it, and somebody that's hungry, somebody that's younger, just starting out, whatever, and then you continue to move forward, you know? But, yeah, yeah, 100% I mean, there's no reason why you couldn't do this another 10 years, and then you just got stupid money at the end of that. I mean, all, it's still all based on that 50,000 investment. So my main point with all of this is, you're funding this first one, this first one funds the next one, these two fund the next one, and you're not taking anything out of your own pocket. From that point, you took the big risk here, day one on, business one, everything after that, the businesses are funding. And the added benefits, too, that you don't even see on the spreadsheet are the business credit that you have for each of these businesses, the points that you're getting on your on the credit cards, the the like home improvements, any house you buy for the rest of your life is, is a tax deduction anytime you want to do anything in your house, because it's through that business, right? Like all those, those little secondary things that people don't think about, that that goes with it too, you know, like, there's just so much to it. And I love real estate. Don't get me wrong, I'm I'm not down on real estate, but it's a whole different game. It's chess and checkers. It really is.

Unknown Speaker  46:57
Yeah, thank you. Yeah, no problem.

Speaker 5  47:01
Shane, I have a question as well. So obviously, it's really important to diversify in what we're investing in. We've talked about real estate and businesses. Do you also look into cash value, life insurance and iuls and things like that as well?

Unknown Speaker  47:16
I believe that IUL is a scam,

Speaker 1  47:19
and I know that's every time I look at it and I run the numbers, it just does not work. I now I have some I have some associates that feel otherwise, and they make it work for them. Every time I sit down and try to make it work for me, I just don't see the benefit in it. I get it that, you know, you're funding your own deals and this and that. And I think, I think maybe, if you were in business for business five in this, you know, plan, maybe those numbers work at that point. But for the people just starting off and trying to get going, No, I I just, I don't think it really works later on, yeah, but not at the beginning, not even after year five. Really, I've tried. I mean, I even trust the people that are, some of the people that are talking about it. And when I sit down and try, try to wrap my head around it, and try to try to put the numbers through, I just don't see the benefits. But at any point in here, you could have used cash flow to buy real estate. At any point in here you you could have bought crypto. At any point in here, you could have bought any kind of asset that you think is going to be good, or to diversify where you're at as as far as I'm concerned, if you buy different types of businesses, you're as diversified as you would would be if with different types of stocks, or, you know, stocks, crypto, real estate, you know, you're still diversifying, unless Now, if all three of these are Motorcycle sales companies, then you put a lot of effort into something that could really tank after, you know, a few years and recession hits or whatever, but, but, yeah, I would like to make the iuls work, but they just don't seem the numbers just don't seem to add up to me. Everybody this Bri Bree has been very patient. I was calling her Bry in all my lives for like, three weeks, so I apologize for that.

Speaker 5  49:32
Bree, honestly, I thought it was kind of funny, but I appreciate that. Actually, I'm in life insurance, and learned a lot about that, so maybe we'll talk more about that sometime.

Speaker 1  49:42
Yeah, I would. It might just be that I'm under the wrong impressions, because a lot of times

Speaker 5  49:47
it's the company and the person that you know. Maybe they don't really know what companies, because they get trained differently in different companies too. So there's a lot of different aspects. Bucks into that, just like stocks, they're all different.

Speaker 1  50:02
Okay, yeah, I mean, I would, I'm always looking to learn new things. So I'm at a point where I could probably use it, you know, so maybe, and if it's viable, I'm, I'm always looking for new opportunities. Yeah, I don't know if you guys know on on Tiktok Nolan. He does commercial real estate. He's a big proponent of iuls, and he funds his deals with iuls, and that's, that's what he's been doing for a long time. And I've talked to him several times, and I mean, it's working for him. So I'm not really sure what I'm missing here, but so far, I haven't needed it. That doesn't mean it can't help me. But yeah, yeah, thanks for that, Bree. There we go. We got somebody in life insurance now, and I like, we had an insurance expert. The community is growing. We're getting more expertise. That's awesome. Well, you does everybody feel like they have a handle on this though the 10 year plan and okay, do you like the name decade to decadence? No, nobody likes that name. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and stop the recording here, and we'll, we'll move on. I'm.
