Speaker 1  00:03
Hey everybody, this is the money Language Academy mentorship. Today is Thursday, March 27 and I'm just gonna open it up to whoever has a question. If you guys just want to raise your hands or throw it in the in the chat, we'll see what we got. We got. Oh, okay, let's see. Nobody Bueller, well, that one, Jane, what you got.

Speaker 2  00:37
So I didn't want to like butt in crazily, but a lot of mine are going to be like veteran business owning question, mainly because what I've looked up a lot, and the reason why you pique my interest so much is I know there's a lot of stuff out there for veterans starting business specifically. And I was unfortunate but fortunate enough to get quite a high ranking, because I was an infantryman in a bad war back in, you know, 2006 through 14 anyways, so I was fortunate enough to have a pretty high rating enough that'll, you know, establish the I know banks love to see that, because it's basically money that nobody could ever Take and it's non taxable. But I don't want to like butt in if you know, the rest of the party doesn't really have these kind of questions. No.

Speaker 1  01:28
I mean, that's what we're here for, right? And, yeah, I don't know how much of this I can answer for you, because, you know, I'm not a veteran. I haven't got any any veteran programs, so I'll do my best.

Speaker 2  01:41
Yeah, so I guess it's, it's, we're just basically starting everything out fresh. And my main, I guess my main questions, is starting point. So obviously I feel like a lot of us are just fresh and starting out. And you explained like the lines of credit and starting a business and the risk factor, meaning like, get something that somebody needs and do a boring business. What was, what was your first business, and what did you what's the most things you've learned from that when it comes to starting?

Speaker 1  02:21
So what I learned from starting my first business was, I'll never start another business from scratch again. That was the main thing I learned, right? So, and the reason why is because is so much risk you have to put so much money into it with no no definite income in sight, right? It's there's because you don't have custom you don't start a business with a bunch of customers. You don't start a business with all your systems in place, with employees, with inventory, like all that stuff. You bring all that and it's like a it's a frenzy to get it all going, and it's like pushing a big boulder up a hill, if you're, if you're will be work hard enough you can get to the top of the hill and you can push it over, but a lot of times it's going to roll back and squash you, right? And that's what I figured out, like there was. So I started a landscaping company from scratch. I got real cocky. I'm like, Oh yeah, I've been doing these businesses. I can do what I know how to do it. And I almost lost my ass because I put a lot of money into the equipment. I put a lot of money, and I just thought, it's going to be easy, you know, I'll just advertise. We'll go and we got to a point where, you know, we were losing money every single week because we didn't have enough customers. And I was like, Okay, this is the last week. It's either going to continue and we're going to figure this out, we're going to start, we're going to get that boulder over the hill to where we're actually making money, or I'm going to shut it down. I'm going to sell everything, and I'm going to call it a loss and learning experience and move on. How I fixed that situation was I bought a business, and I bought a business that was doing the same thing, and I absorbed their customers, I absorbed their equipment, and we subcontracted at the same time, and we were able to get it going. We got enough to sustain it, and then now, now it does really well, but it was touch and go, and so that's why my I always advise people, even if you want to, if you're like, super gung ho, about starting a business, unless you have real experience doing whatever that thing is you or it's something new and innovative that other people aren't doing, then you're better off to buy one, buy One that's already there that somebody's going to retire, somebody's already done it's already pushed that boulder up over the hill and then been riding it down the other side, and they're just tired and sick, and they have to move on to something else, like it's so much less risky to buy one that you know isn't the very day. Eight that you acquire that business that's making money that same day, because you have the financials, you have the tax returns for the last five years, you know what it's been doing month to month this year. And you don't have to, you don't have to take all that risk at the beginning. Someone else has already done it for you. Now, granted, you have to put the money down, and you have to get a loan, and you have to go through all the stuff we've been talking about, but it just puts you on a better trajectory. And especially if you've never run a business before, you can step into that. They already have the accounting. The employees already know how things work. They have inventory, they have suppliers, they have advertising. You know, they they've already done all that for you. So I think the I think the learning curve is a lot. I don't know it's just it's a lot lower. You got to learn some stuff, for sure, but like, when you're starting a business, it's like drinking from a fire hose. It's a lot, all at one time, trying to learn all this stuff, trying to juggle it. You're spending hours and hours and hours, you know, late nights, trying to figure out how to make it work, and your employees still got to get paid. And it's, it's rough. It can be rough. Now the reward is much higher, because, you know, you're not spending $300,000 to buy a business that's established. You're spending more like $30,000 right? Right? So, you know, you can build that in a couple years to be huge and sell it, and there are people that specialize in that, but it just know what you're getting into, is what I would say.

Speaker 2  06:32
So along with that risk, I know me and my wife have the main question of how, how hard is it to run a business that's not in your state. So we plan on moving in two years. I want to start this in six to nine months, to start a business, or buy a business, not start a business, but buy a business. But our plan is when our son graduates high school, we're going to move to her home state, and I'd like to continue on the business, but I feel like you'd have more experience on how hard is it to run one out of state?

Speaker 1  07:07
Yeah, I mean, I, I think it depends on the business itself. You know, some are going to take more time. Some, you know, if you're dealing with customers, if you're dealing with advertising, like you just, I don't know. I don't know a lot of people who have bought businesses out of state and just started it like that. But I'm trying to think about if I know anybody that has a business that they just moved away from, not many, because even on the listings, you'll see one of the reasons why they are selling moving moving out of state. Why would they sell it to move out of state if they could just run it absentee, not all of them, you know. And I mean it just, would you be committed to every now and then, just show, you know, flying there and making sure everything was okay, and then flying back, because you do need to. You have to have a rapport with your employees. You have to have a rapport with your managers, especially you can. You can do it through zoom and Google, meet and stuff like that. But I don't, I don't know, like I haven't done it, so I don't, I don't want to tell you Yay or Nay, but I know that that it would be difficult to continue. That's why I think it would almost be impossible to buy one out of state and get it propped up from a lot from long distance, like you'd have to move there for a couple of weeks and be like, Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna live here for two weeks, three weeks, and I'm gonna get this established, I'm gonna move forward. So I would definitely not advise against that, but you also, you're talking about you would have a year and a half to get systems in place and then move right.

Unknown Speaker  08:51
So maybe, maybe,

Speaker 1  08:56
yeah, I don't know that's that's a great question, but it depends on the business, and it depends on your management too. If you have a great manager that you know you can rely on that person, and can you trust them, then okay, if not, if you have to hold somebody's hand, then you're going to have to find that's not going to be the business to do. To move away from you're going to have to have to replace that management, start from scratch. So I know that's a big answer. That's a non answer, so I'm sorry, but, like, I can't, I

Speaker 2  09:30
think it was good. So our plan was, we're obviously going to establish it for these, you know, two years or year and a half, and travel isn't isn't new to me. I work in a construction company where I'm I'm traveling all the time. I travel back and forth to see my family every couple weeks. And the plan would probably be to travel back every month to have an engagement with with everybody, and then come back, oh, every

Speaker 1  09:53
okay, you could, yeah, that's very doable. Then there's, you know, I'll go sometimes, you know, a couple months. Without physically, you know, stepping into the business, you know. So that's, that's very doable, if you're, if you're committed to traveling that much, I think you could do it, and it gives you a buffer of a year and a half to get the thing ready to be able to do what you want to do. Yeah, a lot of people just don't want to travel that much.

Unknown Speaker  10:22
Sweet, I appreciate it. Thank you. Yeah, no problem.

Unknown Speaker  10:27
Who's next? Eric, I think you were next.

Unknown Speaker  10:39
Oh, we can't hear you.

Speaker 1  10:53
Know, still can't hear you. Okay, we'll come we'll come back to you. He can work on your your sound young. Do you have a question?

Unknown Speaker  11:02
Yeah, Hey, Shane

Speaker 3  11:09
numbers back from the current owner, and they're trying to position as $1.4 million on a net profit, cash flow of about 300

Unknown Speaker  11:25
so from like 2020 to 2022 they had about that much cash flow.

Speaker 1  11:32
They had, okay, your sound cut out a little bit. Can Can you say those numbers again? From two Oh, I think you might have mic problems too young. It's, it's, it's going in and out, in and out.

Unknown Speaker  11:56
And also, if you

Speaker 1  11:57
want to, you can put it in the in the chat the numbers, okay, I'll try that and this, yeah and but go ahead and keep saying what you're saying, but the numbers will help to so. So there I know I heard 1.4 is the asking price Correct? Correct and slow was three.

Unknown Speaker  12:18
300 to 350

Unknown Speaker  12:21
so the 300 to 350 in the last three years,

Unknown Speaker  12:25
or five from from 2020, to 2023,

Speaker 3  12:29
but in the last okay, yes, but in the last two years, their cash flow has dropped. So it's gone from 250 to now 150 but they're still asking for 1.4 saying that it can easily get back to that. Is that a reasonable thing to negotiate down? Yeah, it's

Speaker 1  12:47
a reasonable thing to negotiate down, but you have to negotiate a lot. So what that means is they're putting, they're putting too much blue sky in that deal. So what blue sky is is optimism about what the business can be, or nostalgia for what it used to be. What you have to base it on is the numbers for what they are right now. And like, it's good to have the five years, because you can, you can establish the trend that's going up or down, but what really matters is last year. And a lot of like brokers, they'll take the average of the last three years and they'll use that number. I think that's fair. I think that's fair when they do that. But really what I'm concerned with is last year, and if consistently, it's gone down every year for five years. Do you know? Why? Do they have an explanation for why it's gone down?

Speaker 3  13:38
They said they had issues with staffing, specifically nurses. They couldn't find part time nurses to

Unknown Speaker  13:45
do the injections and whatnot.

Speaker 1  13:46
Well, are you going to be able to find part time nurses? If they can't find them, you're not going to be able to find them either, and you think about so. Five years ago, in 2020 they made a whole lot of money. Why did they make a lot of money in 2020 because of PPP, everybody made a lot of money in 2020 especially the healthcare

Unknown Speaker  14:05
industry. So to me, all those are red flags,

Speaker 1  14:09
and they know better than to factor all of that into that deal. To go back five years and say, Well, this was really good five years ago. It sucks now. But we, you know, we remember the golden age and this we want you to pay for that. That's unreasonable. They're going to have to bring that way down if you, if your cash flow last year is more, would you say it was like 251 5001? 50. No, I even call that guy back. Okay, I mean, because you would have to negotiate that down so much that they're going to be insulted by what you want to offer. And they were, they must be in a real bind, because any broker is going to tell them, Okay, we need to turn this around. We need to get one good year back, figure out how to how to write this ship, get our financials in a state where we can actually. Really justify that 1.4 and then move on from there. But like, yeah, i To me that's, that's, you don't want to, like, I always say you don't want to buy something that you have to turn around. It needs to be viable today, and that business is not viable today. If you step into that, you're cash flowing 150,000 on a $1.4 million loan in six months, you're underwater and you're in trouble.

Unknown Speaker  15:27
Gotcha. Thank you,

Speaker 1  15:29
no problem. Sorry if that was harsh, but like those people, they know better. And has it? Has it? Is it newly listed?

Unknown Speaker  15:38
Been listed for about two months? Yeah,

Speaker 1  15:41
they'll drop it if you really like it. Keep an eye on it, and maybe it'll get affordable. But even so, it's still on a big downturn. And here's what, something I want to tell everybody too, is 2020 when is a different kind of 2020. And 2021 are different years. They're anomalies in the whole history of the United States, all that money that was flowing, all that PPP that people were getting, you're, we're never going to see that again, probably. And but what it did is, it is, it's, it's a blip in the records, in the in the tax, you know, like in the in the tax returns, in the P and L's all that it's, it's, you almost throw that out and don't pay attention to it. That's why I say, you know, the three years, because, you know, things have slowed down. Things have changed in the last three years. It's more accurate of the way it's going to be, you know, next year and the year after.

Unknown Speaker  16:35
By the way, not harsh at all. I love that.

Unknown Speaker  16:38
Okay, cool.

Unknown Speaker  16:41
Eric, did you get your Oh, wait, he came back in.

Speaker 1  16:49
Hey, Eric, sorry I didn't see in the waiting room. Did you get it fixed? Nope. Okay. Well, okay, we'll keep working on it. Eric, we'll come back to you.

Speaker 4  17:09
Ernie, Yeah, question. So what if, let's say, you want to go like in the home services niche, and how do you deal with licensing, like, let's say plumbing or HVAC, because if you want to buy this SBA, they might ask, like, either like a manager or maybe the buyer should have a license, right? So doesn't mean you have to get the license first in order to purchase. Or does it work?

Speaker 1  17:41
It depends on the state. Some states, if you can be an owner, and you don't have to be licensed, but you have to have someone there that's licensed. So at the same time you're, you know, you're even more beholden to your employees, because if they, if the ones that are certified, end up, you know, taking off on you. You can't, you know, you can't continue working right? And then, if it's in a lot of times, you might just need an entry level certification that you can get yourself. But before you even, you know, pursue that, you need to find out what it is in your state and but it's, it's, you know, some states are wide open. You can almost do anything in other states, you have to have the dumbest certifications that you can think of. It just depends. And it's very random. You know, I learned my lesson with the property management and, you know, I don't have to have a broker's license, but I have to have a broker on staff. And I was, I was riding dirty for a while. I didn't even know. I didn't know what. I didn't know until I just came across that. I was like, Oh man, I'm I need to, I'm going to have to do something. I did not even realize I had been going to court for evictions. I had been doing all the things just like I was completely legit. Had no idea. And, and and I just came across an article, and, yeah, I was like, Okay, I gotta partner with a broker. And since then, we've been fine. And if he leaves, if he decides to go on to something else, I have come to have to scramble and find another broker, because I don't have time. There's no way I can be a broker. There's, you know, because a broker is a different level. You go two years to be an agent, another two years to be a broker. Be a broker, and that's too much in a way, so you're just going to have to research that stuff, which is another reason why I always say auto repair, because you're not going to find you don't have to be ASE certified to own an auto repair shop. You know, that's why I love those. But you have to have somebody there that that is and can deal with coolants and Freon and disposing of oil and all that kind of stuff like but, yeah, yeah, you have to just research it in your state and see what the regulations are, and that way you can just cross those off your list. You know, I'm in Missouri, it's pretty wide open. I. There's a lot of they don't have a lot of regulation here. So that's a that's a bonus living in the middle of nowhere, the belly button of the United States Lent and all. Let's see. Dare we try Eric again? No, okay, Millie, I think you were next.

Speaker 5  20:34
Yeah. So, one question I had was, can you talk a little bit about umbrella insurance? What does it do? What does it cover?

Speaker 1  20:41
Yeah, yeah. So, so umbrella insurance, you can get it factored into your regular rental insurance. So, I mean, for, like, an investment property, so if you have, especially, like, a short term rental, you know, the liability is much higher on a short term rental. You have so many people coming in and out, you know, it's just a constant. You know, waves of people coming in moving. They know because they're moving. You know, bags in and out, there's more more likely to fall and sue you, or more likely to damage things or whatever. So you get umbrella insurance on top of your regular insurance, or factored into it, where it gives you added liability against lawsuits. So it'll pay for, you know, one to $2 million of legal fees or judgments against you. It's just added protection. So what people will do it in like especially in a state like California, where the filing fees and the yearly fees are so expensive to renew their their LLCs, they'll instead find it cheaper and more cost effective to buy umbrella insurance that gives them that same protection against, you know, hardcore lawsuits that would potentially try to come after their personal assets. So and if you are really, really worried. You can do both. You can put in an LLC and get umbrella insurance. And, I mean, that's probably the safest that you can ever be with an investment property, is when you have have it in an LLC, properly structured. You haven't pierced the corporate veil. You've kept everything separate and have the umbrella. Yeah.

Speaker 5  22:22
Oh, I see. So right now I have a homeowner's insurance. That was the first thing I got. The umbrella insurance is in addition to that. Or you're saying you could just get umbrella instead, correct?

Speaker 1  22:33
No, it's in addition to that. You can either, you can either ask for additional coverage in that homeowners, or you can get a separate policy specifically for umbrella like there are companies out there that specialize in the different types of rental and rental insurances, you know, for investment properties, and they have multiple types of packages that are already set up and ready, especially for short term rentals. But, I mean, you're it's gonna it's expensive. You have to pay a lot for that umbrella insurance.

Speaker 5  23:04
Okay, okay, just something to think about in the future. I know homeowners insurance was actually required when I bought the properties so, and this is for long term rentals, so I'm thinking maybe more down the road. You know, once I have more passive income, then I might be able to add that

Speaker 1  23:22
for and I can just throw this out there for our long term rentals, we're using a company called OB, O, B, I, E, and it is super cheap, and it's been, it's been pretty good so far, like they, they have not been, they've been great. I mean, I don't have any complaints, especially when it comes time to pay that at the year it's and I've, I've tried to find even other online companies see if they could beat that quote, Nobody can touch it. So that's, that's a nice, cost effective option, O, B, i e,

Speaker 5  23:57
O, B, i e. Is this for umbrella or homeowners,

Speaker 1  24:02
they may have umbrella. I don't do umbrella on our long term rentals. I only, only ever did it. I currently have it on some short term rentals that I just haven't moved into an LLC yet.

Speaker 5  24:14
Oh, okay, so this is the homeowners I can find out. Yeah, thank you. No problem. Who's next?

Speaker 6  24:24
Daniel, yes, if you can just put that name in the in the chat to that insurance company. I'm assuming they provide coverage across the United States, or is it just

Speaker 1  24:38
from Yeah, it's company, I'm pretty sure.

Unknown Speaker  24:41
Yeah, okay, yeah, especially like

Speaker 1  24:46
found for my regular insurance. This company is a insurance broker, and they have got me such cheap rates that I've switched all of our insurance from regular brick and mortar to goose head. They've got how. Contract out with other companies. But, I mean, like, literally half of the cost for the same coverage.

Speaker 6  25:06
Thank you for that. Because, yeah, like one of my main rental in California got, I got dropped from, you know, like, one of the major brick and mortar ones and and when I tried to read do insurance, it was just so expensive a few years ago. So, yeah, definitely want to shop that. But no, my question. Sorry, my baby. I have the baby. My Baby, baby right now. Oh, lordy. Okay. The just life just continues, right? Like, even when you're trying to be great and be an entrepreneur, okay, I'm out of breath, but so I'm my situation is I have a few established LLCs. The one I use the most is my property management one, and I pretty much just do, like, a lot of the maintenance for my rental properties through that like, so whenever it's, like, plumbing needed, or, you know, repairs needed, you know, I pay my contractors out of that account. Um, so I'm wondering what I target that company for funding. I'm looking for funding right now. I want to have acquire businesses, but my, my funding, like my, my focus right now has to be on finishing some of these rehabilit rehabs that I have for my rentals. And so I do need funding. Some more funding, not capital stacking. But I think I need to talk to your person that, yeah, that that can help. Yeah, I think that, I think in my situation, but I'm Yeah, because it's not for business. It's not for acquiring businesses right now is literally to do rehabs for properties are already on free and clear.

Speaker 1  27:06
So I personally, I think that capital stacking is even more suited for rehabs than, Oh, really, because it's a short term it's almost like a bridge loan. It's like a fix and flip loan that but you know, you're using the cards to do it so, and you're only paying on what you pull out. So it's almost like, so you got this, this, these cards that are ready, you only use them.

Speaker 6  27:28
And, yeah, so it operates like a HELOC, kind of like. So, okay, so Yeah, cuz that's, you know, my, my issue is, you know, me being an out of state. Owner. A lot of my properties that I own free and clear out of state, which is cute, until you're trying to get funding, and they're like, Oh, you don't live around here, so we don't want to take that risk.

Speaker 1  27:52
Where's that loc registered? Is it in your home state? Oh, of

Unknown Speaker  27:56
course not. That one is in Wyoming.

Unknown Speaker  28:01
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  28:06
everybody, I would advise, I don't know if I put that in there, but like, if you for funding needs to be in the state that you're going to try to get funding from, like, wherever your address is, your you know, you should be in the same state. Yeah, it helps. I think that might hurt you in your funding, if it's going to, if it's a Wyoming LLC, and then you own properties through that LLC in a different state, and then you live in a third state,

Speaker 6  28:30
yeah, no. So the properties are owned in a different entity name, or, you know, some of them in my in my personal name, but the management, you know, goes through that my LLC that I have,

Speaker 1  28:44
okay, so which, which business has the checking accounts that receive the rent payments.

Speaker 6  28:51
The the property management company is like, where the tenants and from, you know, from the different properties I have, they all go to the same checking account that's from our property management company.

Speaker 1  29:07
Okay, so that Prop, the LLC that has that property management company, is probably your best candidate for funding because there's a history of revenue on those accounts.

Speaker 6  29:20
Yeah, exactly. But it's not like, if we compare my home address and address of that as a management company is like, not the same, they're not the same state, yeah, so I don't know, hopefully that that won't hurt me. But I mean, everything is set up like, I have, I have, like, every I have, like, what is it called a lease agreement and all that for my physical business location. It's just, you know, when they're like, Okay, yeah, if they ask, like, where you live, it's gonna get interesting,

Speaker 1  29:55
yeah, yeah, that and you that's something I haven't encountered myself. Um, but you'd be able to ask him for sure in that okay, and he, you know, he'll let you know. Like, I don't think it's gonna work. You need to create a fresh LLC for this funding. But it also might work, I'm not sure.

Speaker 6  30:16
Yeah, yeah, yep, yeah. Okay, so reach out to schedule.

Speaker 1  30:22
And if you've got, you know, yeah, here's a revenue, you know, coming in, 2022

Unknown Speaker  30:30
Yeah, it was established. And what

Speaker 1  30:33
bank is that business, checking account with boa Okay, yeah. I mean, you might have a good shot at that,

Speaker 6  30:40
yeah, I was just thinking about it. I mean, I have a California business I could use too, but that's for my therapy business, but I don't, but that's, I'm like, I don't really need to expand my therapy business. I don't, like, really need funding for that therapy business. You know, it's more so for, like, the real estate stuff. Okay? So that's why I just don't. I don't want to, you know, I don't want to be messing around and like, getting funding over here, but I'm needing it for a whole nother purpose. That's not for that thing over there, right? I just want to be, I just want to be careful. Yeah, I'll talk soon though. Yeah.

Speaker 1  31:18
Okay, yeah. And careful, you know, you know, we, earlier it was said, you know, you're crunching numbers, and you're not getting, you know, falling in love with any of these assets that we're buying. It's, it's hard not to, especially the first time you get excited, you're like, I'm gonna, this is the one. This is the one. And you start to, you know, look at the numbers with rose colored glasses and stuff like that. So, so, yeah, always, always keep yourself safe above all, yeah, Eric, you had enough time to run out to Best Buy Get some new headphones. No, it's still nothing. Sorry, man, if you want to, just if you put it in the chat, I'll I can, if it's possible, I'll try. Oh, somebody asked a question in the chat too. Let me see, I think that's been there for a while. So, oh, Tory. Tory says, So in New York, there aren't many absentee businesses for sale. However, if I find a good one, but don't know anything about that industry, is that okay, or will this set me up for failure, like, for example, a female owning an auto body shop or diesel mechanic? So it's it's not gonna, you know, the SBA would prefer that you have industry experience. I mean, they, they do. They can, you know, that goes into their their process of approval, but it doesn't, it doesn't stop it. If it's an established business, if the deal is good, that will keep you moving forward. Now, with that said, a male dominated industry might be a little tough. So I think in in some of the auto repairs, like, we've got just a couple of female employees, they're really customer service reps. We don't have any female, you know, mechanics, yeah, so I'm not saying that it wouldn't work, and I've known some really, really good female business owners that it wouldn't matter what it was like. You know, they're able, they're able to talk to people, they're able to manage people, and they just kind of kind of command respect. So you just have to ask yourself, are you ready for people to doubt you? You know, are you? Because that's probably what what you would encounter. So you're going to have to prove yourself early. But that goes for everybody. You know, if I buy something tomorrow that I'm not in that industry, I don't know much about it, it's going to be the same process for me. I go in there, and the only thing I have to fall back on is, I own these other businesses, right? I'm a business owner, but at the same time, they're going to look at me like he doesn't know what he's talking about. But if you keep them happy, you listen to their suggestions, you reward them for good work, and, you know, you give them incentives to keep the business running smoothly, and it's, it's still possible, but I think, I do think Tory that it'll Be an more uphill than different industries I do. I it,

Unknown Speaker  34:43
but you could still do it.

Unknown Speaker  34:46
Not saying you can't, but yeah,

Speaker 1  34:49
you got, you got to be ready to get in there and mix it up at the beginning.

Unknown Speaker  34:54
They're going to test you.

Speaker 1  35:00
Okay, okay, I think you had your hand up next.

Speaker 7  35:13
You there. Okay, yeah, sorry. I want to pick up my charger. I didn't know you called me, but I figured out. I figured that out later. Okay, so I wanted to bring up a business that I was looking at. Okay, if

Unknown Speaker  35:30
you want to, you want to drop it in the chat.

Speaker 7  35:33
Actually, I can share my screen if, okay, yeah, with the financials. Can you?

Unknown Speaker  35:41
Can you enable screen share?

Speaker 1  35:45
Yes, well, it should be enabled. I don't I'm not sharing mine right now, am I? It should one. Each person should be able to share one time.

Speaker 7  35:53
It says, disable screen share. Oh, I

Unknown Speaker  35:56
got it. There we go. You should be good now.

Unknown Speaker  35:59
Yep, okay.

Speaker 7  36:09
Okay, are you able to see it? Yes. So this is a pet grooming business, great company. It's been in existence for 19 years, has two locations, one of them, or both of them, in Austin, and,

Unknown Speaker  36:32
yeah, they seem to be doing really good.

Speaker 7  36:36
And the thing that impressed me the most about them is like it seems like a very organic company, like, very organic business, okay? A lot of subscription, you know, based customers. They don't, they barely even do any ads or whatever.

Speaker 1  36:52
We love subscription based companies,

Speaker 7  36:55
yeah, but then there, there have been, like, there's a few things that concern me. So they're asking 550 and they're making so this is 22 they made 156, net. I'm correct, right? 56 right there. And 20 373, which is impressive, and last year, they made 144

Unknown Speaker  37:26
My biggest concern is

Unknown Speaker  37:30
the owner puts in 35 hours a week,

Speaker 7  37:35
and she works as a receptionist and a and a

Unknown Speaker  37:42
and a manager.

Speaker 7  37:45
And mind you, there's two locations, and these PNLs are for both locations,

Unknown Speaker  37:50
okay? And they're selling them as a bond.

Unknown Speaker  37:54
Can you repeat that they're selling them together?

Speaker 7  37:56
Or yes, they're selling them together, yeah, okay, um, she's retiring. And so my first thing is the times asking, the net times three over asking like that. That falls short a little bit like a couple, like 120 100, 100,000 to 120 so that's my first thing. And my second big thing is this the owner, you know, because I'm not like, I'm looking like, I'm not, I don't. I'm not going to have the time to be able to put 35 hours a week in. Yeah, and the owner is so worse she pays. My reception is 52,000 I can't find it here, but it's here somewhere. So you paste on the manager, 52,000

Unknown Speaker  38:43
she pays herself 52,000 so that's, that's it here,

Unknown Speaker  38:47
but the receptionist,

Speaker 7  38:51
the receptionist is separate, so I, I reached out and I asked about it, and they said they could, you could possibly hire someone as a receptionist in the other location, and she just manages that one location. But it did mention she is a office, the manager and receptionist as well. But when I reached out, they said, You I could hire, I could get one of the groomers to be a manager, and hired them for under 52,000 and but I don't know what I'm going to get the receptionist for. So I'm wondering if, because I'm putting this 90k or 95k like total for the receptionist and the owner, and I'm saying, hey, if she's not available, she's not there, like that, I'm going to have to duck that off the, you know,

Unknown Speaker  39:39
the net, if that makes sense, yeah,

Speaker 1  39:45
profitable, yeah. I mean, it's already under so even even without, like, so the fact that they're spending that many hours, and it's two locations that actually makes me feel a little bit better about it, because it's. Somebody's managing the other location on their own right, so that it's definitely very possible for it, but it doesn't seem like the cash flow would support hiring someone to fill that position with you not being there and still service the debt. I don't think that it would, because you would pull that off of there, because it's hard for me to see, but it looks like they're already adding back the owner salary into that number. That's how they're getting that number, right? So because seller discretionary earnings are an add back, that's that goes back into, you know, the cash flow. So, yeah, I, I don't, I don't think, I don't think you'd be there's enough cash flow to hire someone and still make it viable to where it's worth it.

Speaker 7  40:54
Okay, I really answers my question, and honestly, yeah, thank you. No problem, Dan, you're next. Alright.

Speaker 8  41:11
So I'm just trying to put this in context. I just want to make sure this first week in this, all this, I'm just trying to take massive action. So one of the things I'm gathering from the phone calls I've made, the emails I've received from the people on bids, buy, sell it again, just my history is real estate. It seems as though, like some brokers, if not, most brokers, are motivated to bring a deal together, just like a realtor would be in real estate, because they get paid at the closing? Is that a fair assumption?

Speaker 1  41:44
Well, it's a little bit different. So, so a business broker, most states, a business broker has to be a real estate broker. They have to have training in real estate before they can even so, they're very similar. They come from similar backgrounds and so, but they also, most of them get paid per month to have the listing active too. So they get paid per month, not all of them, but they get paid per month plus they, you know, they get a piece of the deal, just like in real estate at the end. What they're really trying to do is they're trying to just like a real estate broker would do. They're trying to get competition. So they're, they're throwing it out there. They're trying to get multiple people. They're going to try to foment that competition among people, to get, you know, bids going and things like that. They try to do that as well, but, but, yeah, they also, you know, like they're the first line of defense against tire kickers. So what they get all the time is, and if you talk to a broker, that's like their biggest frustration is people will call them, reach out to them with no in real intention of ever doing anything. And it's the same thing in real estate. You know, someone who wants to do an investment property, they'll reach out, they'll look and they'll be all gung ho, and you never hear from them again. They run into that so much too. So yeah, it's very, very similar, but the more times they can get people to to throw a letter of intent together, it looks the more it looks like they're doing stuff for that owner. They're keeping the owner happy because they're bringing people to them. So even if it's not necessarily the best situation of a buyer. It keeps that listing going to where they're getting that monthly. They're not going to fire that broker when the contract ends and go to a different company.

Unknown Speaker  43:33
Yeah, yeah. So it's very similar.

Speaker 8  43:37
That's that's helpful. The other question I have is I looking at this automotive repair shop in Virginia, and I sent the little like email through biz, buy, sell or whatever, and it seems like it's automated to come back to sign an NDA and I click on the link. Now they're asking me 50 questions of like, hey, how much cash do you have? What are your stocks? What other businesses do you own? I don't necessarily, it's none of their business at this point, right?

Speaker 1  44:10
So well, when it comes to brands world or one of those big broker brokerage companies, I guess so.

Speaker 8  44:16
I mean, that's what I'm guessing. I just saw something I thought would be interesting, and I sent the message,

Speaker 1  44:23
yeah, they, you know, that is to to weed out people who aren't, aren't serious. You know, that's, that's and, you know, at least they did that and they didn't, they didn't ask for a proof of funds letter. So a proof of funds letter is the one thing that's hard to overcome, and a lot of people just write their own proof of funds later. I'm not, I don't think that's ethical, you know, but there are people that do it, and there's a template and the stuff in the documents, if you want. I've never done it myself, but some people do. But like, as far as just filling all that stuff out, I feel. It out like so when I was just starting, there was a Trans World is we'll do this almost every single time. They'll do an NDA, they'll keep it on file, and they'll keep these numbers and all that stuff on file. So if you, if you inquire about multiple businesses, and it's through Trans World, they're going to, you know, link that back to that original so when you put the numbers on there, put them on there, like, what you project it to be when you're when you're going to acquire, you know, so if you don't not stocks, obviously you're not going to buy a bunch of stocks in the next few months. But, you know, in general, like, whatever down payment that you think you're going to be able to get and you're comfortable with getting just put that down there, you know, put your income, obviously, all that the whatever it is, and whatever real estate you own, all that kind of stuff. But you don't have to put addresses and and it's very informal. It's not, it's not like they're going to hire a private investigator to go check these things.

Speaker 8  46:00
So what? Okay, it seems like it's a big one. I don't buy, right? This is all new, so fill it out, though, is what you're saying. Na on it, because there's an asset.

Speaker 1  46:11
Put put something in there, put something in there. Because what it'll do is, is they'll they just think you're not serious, and they won't take you serious. They won't want to send you the financials. They're not going to want to schedule anything for you to talk to the owner or visit the business. It's just, you know, it's the same thing like in real estate, where they want, they want to, you know, a letter from your lender to say that you're approved. You know, they don't want just walking around in random houses, same thing.

Unknown Speaker  46:42
That's very helpful. Thank you. No problem. Okay.

Speaker 1  46:53
Okay, so Eric, were you not able to put your question in the chat? I hate that we didn't get to answer it for you. I um, let's see anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 3  47:18
What you got young, so I'm relatively new, so if you've already covered this somewhere else, my apologies. But do you outline kind of a Buy Box for businesses that you look for and target somewhere?

Speaker 1  47:34
Yeah, I mean the so as far as the type of business I talk about that quite a bit like, you know, recession resistant home, home services, like anything that helps people and is a vital service no matter what the economy is doing. So, you know, auto repair, that's a great one, because it doesn't matter what's happening with the economy, if you got to get back and forth to work, you're going to go get your car fixed if it breaks down right? Tires, lube oil, quick oil changes, that kind of stuff, plumbing, anything with with septic tank, plumbing, like all those nightmare situations that everybody doesn't want to deal with, and they know it's going to cost them a bunch of money, but at the same time that you have to get it done. You got a leaking pipe, you got clogged up toilet, whatever you're in, you can't deal with it yourself. You're going to get it done. So. So that's the as far as the types of places that I like, and what I stay away from, for sure, is anything that's vacation related, hobby related, like, like, motorcycles, boats, RVs, things like that to because it's one of the first things that people stop doing, is they, they'll stop vacations, right? They'll stop by, you know, they're not going to buy a brand new motorcycle if the economy has changed. So that kind of stuff, I stay away from as far as now that once you single out certain types of like industries that you're looking at, then it's, there's that Fab Five, right? I don't know if you saw that video. There's one of the first acquisition videos is the Fab Five. So it's the first thing is the cash flow times three needs to be greater than the asking price. Okay, so if they're asking 300,000 it needs to make at least 100,000 in cash flow. The second thing is it needs to be an established business that's been around for seven years or more. You can get by with five, but I prefer seven. Seven means that they've already, you know, they've gone through the reset, if they got a commercial loan, like all kinds of stuff, seven years means they're way more stable. The next thing is the amount of employees. They need to have seven employees or more, which means, if it's been around for seven years, they have seven employees. Employees, then they probably have expertise in house that can manage that for you, or are already managing it, or, you know, where you don't have to try to bring in someone from the outside to manage that business. It's, it's, there's someone you can promote from within or continue their management. Then the next thing is the the reason for selling. The reason for selling needs to be something personal from the owner, and not something business related or something generic. So it needs to be something like retirement, spend time with grandkids, illness, have to relocate to a different state for family, divorce, death, that kind of stuff. But if it says something like another business is taking too much of my time, or looking to explore other opportunities, looking to get into another sector or industry, then those are red flags. That means, because if they were making good money at that business, they wouldn't be looking to branch out. They would just prop it up, put a manager in there, keep making money on it, and then then go explore. There's other opportunities. And the last one is it needs to be labeled as absentee by the owner. If the owner considers it to be absentee, then that's, that's, that's great. You just have to be careful, because some owners think 25 hours a week is absentee, and other owners think, you know, an hour a week is absentee, but that's kind of So, I guess that's a Buy Box. But really a Buy Box, it would be like, You love quick change oil shops, and you know, you'd be looking for those, and then you would apply those numbers to it.

Speaker 3  51:41
That's very helpful. Yeah, that's very helpful. But I think one thing that has been on my mind is considering, like, how do you evaluate the competition in that particular area for any one of these businesses? Specifically, because I know a lot of private equity firms are buying up a lot of these, mom and pops, and rolling them up, and, you know, it's a

Unknown Speaker  52:09
little cross that or,

Speaker 1  52:11
oh yes, yeah. So you sound cut out for a second, but I think I know what you're asking. So, yeah, I have come across that where, you know, you can't really compete against private equity. But here's the thing, here's the thing with with a baby boomer, they don't give a shit about a private equity, a fancy person coming in there, you know, with their company and buying up their little thing that they've spent decades building, they would much rather look you in the eye and you shake their hand, and you say, I will, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to love this business. I'm going to take care of it. I'm going to grow it. I'm going to take care of your employees. You know, that's how you compete with private equity. It's not through the bidding process, it's through the relationships that you foster, through the due diligence phase, when you get an opportunity to actually meet the owner for the first time, you want to build a rapport first, the last thing you want to do is talk about numbers, talk about anything like that. You know. You want to be very complimentary and say things you know, because they it's impressive what they've done. They've taken something from nothing and built it over all these years to a point to where they can sell it to someone for tons, tons more than what they put in it to begin with. Like, they built something impressive. So if you focus on that, you know, like, Hey, this is, I really love this business. What you've done here, you know, how, why did you start it to begin with? How'd you get into this? Like, just start building that up and you'll beat private equity every time, because they'll take less money from you because they feel like their employees are safe. You know, they're, they're number one. I saw a study. It said the number one concern for people selling a business is one, they're not going to get enough money for it. They're going to, you know, sell it for too cheap. And number two, that their their employees are not going to be taken care of, and a private equity firm cannot guarantee that the employees will be taken care of, because it's all about the numbers, and it comes down to it. And the old guy that's been there, you know, with the owner for 20 years, he's not performing like someone someone else, private equity is going to fire them immediately and not care and move on where you know you might not, you might have a little bit more of a heart than that.

Speaker 3  54:28
That's great. What about the other way around? How do you how do you contend with maybe a business, or a line of business that private equity has come in and started to establish a foothold, and now you got to compete against the big

Speaker 1  54:46
money, yeah, and that's why, you know, people ask about coffee shops a lot, and I'm like, there's so much competition in that. And Starbucks could, you know, they franchise that thing all the time. They just show up, you know, a block away from you, and you're in trouble. Um. But if they're already, if they're already established there, you know, those that will reflect on the numbers. So if that business has, you know that that competitor has, you know, a big company has come in and bought them and expanded and advertised or turned it into a franchise that's already reflected in your numbers if it's been there for a couple years, and you'll be able to see a downward trend if it's been affecting them, you know. And then it comes back to comparing it with the numbers. But that's part of, that's part of your due diligence, is, you know, when you go there, you're looking around like, Okay, what's what's on this block, what's on this block, you know? Oh, here's another business doing something similar, and it's, you know, a quarter mile away. Are they doing it better than this business? You know, what? What are, is their parking lot full? And this one's not like that kind of stuff. You pretty much have to really dig in. You have to ask. You have to talk to employees. You have to look at reviews. You know, what kind of reviews does it have? Does it have? Does this company have great reviews? And the one you're looking at has terrible reviews for the last couple years, like that kind of stuff. But the numbers are your first line of defense, and then after that, you just have to, you're almost like, I don't know, Nancy Drew in that that place, like you're looking at, you're looking for anything that could harm you in the future, and everything has to be just right. Otherwise, you know, you have to pay attention to red flags, because it's, you know, once you're in it, you're in it, you can't get out. So you gotta look, you know, overturn every rock and look what's underneath there.

Unknown Speaker  56:42
Awesome. Thank you for that great summary.

Speaker 1  56:47
Um, oh, thanks for putting that in there. Dan, yeah, that so that Fab Five, that video is, is out there. If you haven't, if you haven't seen that video, it's in, it's in the courses.

Unknown Speaker  57:00
Okay, Janine, you got a question.

Speaker 9  57:04
Yeah, what do you think about an owner wanting to stay on after the acquisition?

Unknown Speaker  57:10
So they want to stay on as an employee?

Speaker 9  57:13
I It says, at the discretion, hold on. I'll give you the exact wording. Owner willing to remain at location at the discretion of the buyer. Owner would like to transition. So reason for selling, owner would like to transition towards retirement, as there is no line of success.

Speaker 1  57:28
Okay, well, that's a good reason for selling. That's good. But like so, if it's somebody that's really set in their ways and they they sell their baby to you, it's probably you're gonna get some friction there. And even, even if they're like, Okay, yeah, yeah, these changes that you're making are great, you know. And then when you leave, they're like, can you believe these changes? So I would, I would be a little worried about that, like, I would want them to stay on to, you know, for the help and for the transition itself, to make sure that you know, but I wouldn't want to keep them as an employee long term. I would say that would be something that you can negotiate in the purchase agreement where you put a certain time in there with a real with an evaluation at the end of 30 to 60 days, you know, whether or not you keep that person or not after the end of that 30 days, you'll have a better idea of the character and how they're acting there. If they've caused problems, then no you could, you know, say, Well, I think, you know, we're gonna have to. We're gonna part ways. I really appreciate all your help, but I need to reinvest the money that I would pay you in salary into this, you know, so there's no hard feelings, and you can still reach out to them if you need to. But, um, yeah, I would be hesitant to enter into a long term commitment to keep an owner as an employee. Yeah, it's a great question. Um, okay. I think we already answered that. Kay,

Unknown Speaker  59:13
Eric, still nothing. I'm sorry, buddy, that's a bummer.

Speaker 7  59:22
I put a new another business in the chat that was different.

Unknown Speaker  59:27
Okay, truck,

Unknown Speaker  59:29
yeah, okay, let me share my screen.

Unknown Speaker  59:34
Look at the sucker. Okay, so.

Unknown Speaker  59:44
And you're in Texas, correct?

Unknown Speaker  59:46
I am, yes, in Dallas.

Unknown Speaker  59:49
Wow, that's a lot of cash flow for that asking price.

Speaker 7  59:54
Yeah, there's a lot of stuff that's off. I looked at their piano, and that's not their cash flow. Yeah. Stuff like that just throws me off, you know, like,

Speaker 1  1:00:03
well, and this is, this is a broker, so they know better. What did the cash flow say on the financials? It was 142,403 trucks. Okay. Well, I mean, there could be reasons for that. So that was the tax return you're looking at, or is that? Was that the

Speaker 7  1:00:24
P and L? P and L, I hate looking at tax returns. I have to give that to my fiance to look at, so I need some time on that. Like I just don't know how to look at those. So okay,

Speaker 1  1:00:35
well, the P and L's the P and L should reflect the same number, unless they're unless this is right, yeah, but this okay, here's the EBITDA right here. So I don't know that number should not be more than that number, because that doesn't make sense. So they've already got an EBITDA right there. So that's the earnings before they've even paid for, you know, Income Taxes, Depreciation and amortization. So that's before they paid if they owe money on these trucks,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:10
which I assume they do, do? They,

Speaker 1  1:01:15
yeah, they're older. Wow, those are pretty old trucks too.

Speaker 7  1:01:18
Yeah, they probably, yeah, I probably go through a lot, like a servicing the financing also kind of put me off as well. The 320, down 100k finance, like, I don't get that,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:37
yeah, I don't know what they're even talking about there.

Speaker 1  1:01:42
So, they want 300 and so, well, probably what they're saying is they'll finance 100 of it outside. So, yeah, you're gonna, you would bring 320 from your SBA loan. So you'd still, so you get a loan for for 320 and what? So they would be first position on the loan, on the assets, and then seller would be second position. It'd be one of those kind of things. So that that's what they're saying. They're like, they're willing to finance 100,000 off the top. Okay, it doesn't, it doesn't sound like they're willing to finance any of the down payment. But if they're willing to finance 100,000 off the top, they would probably also finance a portion of your down payment, if not most of it. Okay, but yeah, this, if it makes 150 if this is a real number, like if this, say, for instance, this is actually the cash flow, it's possible. I mean, it's, you know, it's there, you know, it's right in that wheelhouse. It's, it's, it's pretty good numbers at that point you do only have three drivers, so I don't know who's coordinating what they do. Probably the owner, um, and and old trucks, like, it would be a maintenance issue. Now, those things go for a long time, but, you know, they probably got, they had hundreds of 1000s of miles on them too, right?

Speaker 7  1:03:18
Yeah, I was, I wanted to ask, like, what kind of questions to like be picking that like picking at an owner, and I think I'm getting them Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:27
Biggest thing is those trucks, you know how many miles,

Speaker 1  1:03:31
you know they have. They have contracts, I assume, with contractors or quarries or something. You know, you want to know what kind of contracts they have. When do those contracts end? You know, because it could be a few things. One, maybe they're getting ready to lose a big contract. And you know that maintenance is coming up on these on these vehicles. But it would be even worse if maintenance is coming up and they're going to lose their biggest client, or something like that. Like you, you would need to know those things, okay, and who's coordinating it all like I It looks like the owner is probably the one. You know, if is he include, or he or she included in the three, or are they in addition to the three? If they're included in three the day you step in down a driver, unless you want to get a CDL and do some software engineering from behind the wheel,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:34
right? So, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:04:38
okay, all right, thanks. I think I got my answers.

Speaker 1  1:04:50
Okay, Tori, you okay? You want me to run this one? Sure? I.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:05
Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  1:05:09
gas station, oil change and car wash.

Speaker 1  1:05:17
Okay, it's not looking good. So, I mean, right there from the beginning, it's not making enough money to support that asking price, right? That business with, with, with that EBITDA, would be 650

Unknown Speaker  1:05:38
would be a better asking price. So,

Speaker 1  1:05:42
so this is a good opportunity. Let me get the analyzer out, and let's go ahead and test, test, test, oh, you're there. You're back. Okay, let me get the analyzer and let's crunch these numbers so you can see, you can see why this. This wouldn't be a great deal. Okay, so we'll just throw it in here. They're asking and for people that are new. So how this works is you just fill out the yellow boxes, right? So we'll fill out. The asking price is 999,000

Unknown Speaker  1:06:28
Oh, wait, no, 999,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:34
EBIT das 208,

Speaker 1  1:06:40
okay, so it's already right there. It tells you the purchase price. The multiple is 4.8 what we like to see is three or less. Okay, let's see gross revenue was 3.2 million.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:07
I want to make zeros. No, all right, looks weird. Yeah, there we go,

Speaker 1  1:07:18
FF and E, they don't say, or is it listed down here?

Unknown Speaker  1:07:27
No, it doesn't say, Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:35
no, inventory.

Speaker 1  1:07:42
Oh, okay, and we'll just say 10% what you would bring.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:49
That's too much for that. So say three.

Speaker 1  1:07:54
Okay, oh, wait, no, I'm sorry. That's the word in capital. We'll just say you don't need working capital.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:00
You're gonna bring in 10% down payment.

Speaker 1  1:08:06
Okay, now let's see what this ends up being. So 10 years, 10? Yep, nine and nine. Okay, so it still technically works the DS but the DSCR is getting dangerously close to a 1.25 which a 1.25 is the absolute minimum that most SBA lenders, or lenders in general, will will consider whether it's real estate or a business. So that very first year, so you so you think about it, you're putting in that down payment that you're putting in is $103,000 because you got to factor in, you know, closing costs and all that stuff. So the very first year, you cash flow 60,000 but you still, you know, you haven't even paid yourself back yet. So you're you can, you can take all that money it's taking to take you two years to pay back your down payment, then you can, then you start making money. But that is a lot of money to put down for that kind of cash flow, and it's going to be risky, and probably because the DSCR is getting close to 1.25 you might not even be able to get a 10. You might be born at 11. That's how they do it. They mitigate their risk like that, and then you're still just barely over so and then how long would it take you to pay that debt back, making cash flowing an extra 55,000 a year to pay back that million dollars,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:45
20 years, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:49
That's a long time. You.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:00
Did that help? I hope, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:10:12
the calculator is great because, you know, it's one thing to go through the rules, the like the five rules. It's just a starting point when you get into this, this, this is what tells you a lot. So you get the nitty gritty of the loan. Your payment on that deal is almost 13,000 a month. That's a big business. That business should if they want a million dollars for it, that business should be cash flowing, 300 and something. You

Unknown Speaker  1:10:44
so there you go. You can see all the cash flows.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:48
See everything that's going on with that loan.

Speaker 1  1:10:53
How long it would take you, you know what your financial position after all these years is. Yep, okay. Want me to leave my screen up, Eric, you got something?

Speaker 10  1:11:24
All right, so can you hear me? Yes, yes, sweet. I had to go steal my son's gaming headset. I do have no idea what's going on.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:33
He's gonna be so mad. He

Speaker 10  1:11:35
probably will be but it'll be okay. Yeah, I kept trying to ask questions during the LLC stuff, and I was wondering why I was getting no responses. I was like, Man, how do I put my hand up something? Something's not right here. So, yeah, I was excited about the LLC stuff tonight. So I do have some questions. So, you know, I've kind of been talking about what I'm wanting to do with you. You know, I'm still pursuing the HELOC. So I heard you say that's probably going to be a better fit than doing the capital stacking. But, you know, I'm trying to weigh all my options. So is an LLC still something that you think that in this process of trying to buy a business is something to have established anyway, like, should I go ahead and start the process of this?

Speaker 1  1:12:26
Well, it's, it's still a good tool to have, because, especially, you know, when you do find that business, if you want to do an asset sale, you already have an established entity that can own that those assets and do it the doing business, as if that's what you choose to do, you know, that's what I've been doing is, you know, I'm going to bring an entity in there myself. I'm not going to assume there's because I don't want that liability. There are a lot of people that are doing similar things that will tell you the exact opposite. They don't want the hassle, because it's it's more paperwork, it cost more to have an attorney do the acquisition that way. But at this point where I'm at like, I want to keep myself safe from liability, but when I was first starting, I was just assuming those entities. So if your plan is to keep things as low cost as possible. And, you know, keep keep that overhead down, then it is, it is much cheaper to just assume their entity. And if you don't need funding, then you don't necessarily need an LLC. You know, you don't even need this. However, it's good to have it in case something happens, but you'll you already have an entity that you assume that's established. If that's that's a route you want to go with, a bunch of financial records, a bunch of history. You got seasoned bank accounts, all that stuff. So, I mean, you even then, you don't really need it, unless you want to do something on the side and fund that. If you want to do real estate, I know you do a lot of real estate,

Speaker 10  1:14:02
yeah, when you mentioned the fix and flip using the capital stacking for that, that kind of piqued my interest, because I'm trying to weigh a lot of different avenues. I'm not finding a lot of businesses in Virginia that are, you know, doable with the things that we're looking at, I'm still looking daily, but I'm just trying to give myself as many options and be prepared for things if they do arise. So that's why I was, you know, the LLC and the capital stacking sounded like something good to kind of have in your back pocket, but then you're talking about deadlines, and, you know, things have to fall in a certain order.

Speaker 1  1:14:42
And, yeah, well, you know, it's a you have a year of interest free. That doesn't mean you still can't use those cards. So if you get, if you get the cards, and say, you get $75,000 in business credit spread over, let's say it's three cards. You know, it's probably. Going to be more than that, but just say it's three. The only overhead in it is what you paid to get that capital stacking to begin with, you know, whatever that is. And then after that, it's just what the annual fee might be on the card. And a lot of these cards don't even have an annual fee, so you don't have to worry about that. So it's just sitting there for that year, and it's not hurting anything. Like, there's no, there's no, you know, spending involved, like you don't, you don't have to use it if you don't need it. But if you are going to use it and use it heavy, you want to use in that first year, because, say, it takes you three months to flip, you know, to rehab a house. You know you're going to be paying a minimum payment, plus the interest for those three months, but it's only it. You know, it's only the interest for three months. It's not like you have to pay it all back, right? Then you pay it back when you sell. But you know, it makes that minimum down payment higher than if you just had the no interest period, but it's still generally going to be cheaper than getting a fix and flip loan or very similar. Those things come with super high interest too. So I it's just, you know, but you have to do all the stuff for the fix and flip loan. You have to give all your financials. Are you w twos? Your income has to justify it. You have to show you know what, how you were able to to buy it to begin with. And you know, you can use the capital stacking, not only for the fix and flip, for the the flip and fix part of it, but the purchase down payment too. So you can, you get enough of that you can finance it, just like we did with the SBA, where you season the money, you know, for two months, three months, to make sure that you've got the bank statements to say, This is my money. It's in my account. And then you buy it, you rehab it, you sell it, you do a burr, you do whatever, you pull your money back and pay those cards back. So it's the same kind of situation, but it's very risky, because if the market's on a downturn and you can't sell that house. Not only do you have a house with a mortgage, you know, with with payments on it, but you've got credit cards that you have to pay back to. So it's, it's it's risky business. But if you find me, you know real estate, you're finding that you're specializing right now and finding off market deals that are cheap.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:19
So if you can find that's the, you know, you make some

Speaker 10  1:17:21
flips, aren't really doing a lot of cash and fix and flips, or with the interest rates, just aren't doing it right now. So that's where, you know, I was looking at the business acquisition stuff. So if you know, I'm trying to follow you, you know, they always say, you find somebody and do what they do. So if you're in my position, you know, I told you about the HELOC, I'm I've got that that I'm working on right now. Do I just stay on that route? Do I worry about the LLC and just keep waiting for the right business to come along?

Speaker 1  1:17:53
Or if you have the opportunity for the HELOC, I would, I would just do that. I would just just pursue the HELOC. It just, it's going to sit there, you know, you're going to pay gonna pay the fees on it to begin with, but until you pull money out of it, it's just gonna sit there, you know. And it works the same way as those credit cards. You pull the money as you need it, and you pay it back, you pay it back, and you can use that for anything. So, yeah, I mean, that would be worse. I don't think you need an entity if you want to keep your costs way low and you don't want to get capital stacking and you have the opportunity for a HELOC. Yeah, you probably don't

Speaker 10  1:18:33
need to. So finish that, and then just keep looking.

Speaker 1  1:18:37
Keep looking. Yep, you will find one. Eventually you'll find one that no one else is paying attention to, that doesn't have a picture, you know. It'll be something like that, like, just like, just like in, you know, you might go weeks without finding a good wholesale deal, or months, you know, and then it just happens. It's the same thing with this stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:56
Yeah, yeah. Awesome.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:59
Thank you. No

Unknown Speaker  1:19:03
problem. Okay? Young put a question in here.

Speaker 1  1:19:08
Let's see, how do you balance deciding between buying another business and spending time on scaling the ones you've got? That's a great question. That's what I struggle with right now. Like, should I, you know one that's doing pretty well, and I see upside in it, like, do I invest that same money into

Unknown Speaker  1:19:26
to scaling it, or look for another one? So

Speaker 1  1:19:31
if I already have one that's doing well, and I see an opportunity to scale I will probably do that because of the time issue, right? You know, the more these that you juggle around, the less time you have to deal with each one of them. So if I scaled it, I could probably do that same thing. It's maybe a month's worth of more work to get it propped up at, you know, whatever I'm going to do if I'm going to expand, if I. I'm going to do extra marketing if I'm going to hire more people, whatever, whatever it might be, new equipment? Yeah, I would probably do that instead. But you don't always have that option. You know, a lot of these businesses have a ceiling, or you just run out of like you have this one building, and you can't you can only add so many employees there, you can only add so much equipment, and then you reach a reach a limit of the money you can make. So it just depends. But yeah, I would, I would probably look into that first. Definitely. I'm always looking to scale. You know, if you can make more money and something that's already doing. Well, it's even better. And then you have the option of, if you do scale it, you have the option of selling it in a couple of years, once you get the financials to support the value add, and that's where you can make some huge, huge gains. I haven't done it yet, but I've considered it, we'll see. I kind of like to hold on to it, because it's just, if they're making money and it's not driving me nuts, why not? So like people say in real estate all the time, like the biggest mistake I ever made was selling property. I should have just held it. You know, those are generally people that are older and like, if I would have kept that house for 30 more years, I'd have made $17 million but, yeah. Okay, some great questions. I appreciate it. As always, if you guys know anyone that's interested in similar things, which is probably not the case, usually people we're kind of rolling solo on this, like the people around me don't understand. My family doesn't understand my friends are like, Why are you doing this? You have a good job you you know, I don't understand, you know, just relax. But I like it so. But if you do know somebody that's that's interested in learning the same things, you know, there's an affiliate link, like any you can invite anybody, and you get a portion of their subscription fees. I don't care, like, that's, I'm not here, you know, to sell a course, or any of that kind of stuff. But I don't mind if you guys do, if you just, like, I say, with the documents, if you want to sell those, I don't care whatever, whatever you want to do. I'm just trying to, I'm trying to get some success stories out of this. So I hope so I like one of these days, somebody buys a business. We make videos together, we post it, and we rub it in the faces all those people that are selling $10,000 courses, that would be a good day. So whoever that's going to be,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:02
yeah, yeah, I hope.

Speaker 1  1:23:06
And so what I'll do is I will get these recordings in the community tomorrow, sometime, if you guys want to check them out again or just go back over them, if you're looking for the business funding, you're going to start that LLC process. LLC process, you know, take your time. You have any questions about any of those steps, you know, post those questions in the channel, and that way we'll have answers to them so everybody can be helped at the same time. But yeah, I think that's it, and I appreciate it everybody. And next week, next week, we're going to do real estate. We're going to talk real estate. So we haven't done that one yet. Alright? Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Bye, guys. Bye, everyone. Bye.
