Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane. It's September 11, 2025 and this is the tonight. We're going to be talking about taxes, mainly. So this would basically be in the either general investing kind of crossing over to business acquisition. And the reason why I wanted to talk about this tonight is because I went and bought some equipment for one of my businesses today. And just I want, I want people to understand how the big, beautiful bill, bonus depreciation section, 179 all of that stuff actually works in your favor. If you know what you're doing, everybody right now is buying equipment. Everybody's buying software, computers, like whatever your business needs, because of the changes that have happened recently. So you need to know and be aware of what those things are. It doesn't matter if, even if you have a side hustle. You can buy those things for your side hustle, and if it's bringing you money, you can do the same kind of deductions, right? But it has to be legit. You have to record everything. There's no easy way through this stuff. But if you know the rules and you understand how things work, it can be, you know, a complete and and total like game changer for the way that you look at assets and spending money on your business or spending money to make money. Okay, so further ado. Screen here. It just do it like this. So bonus depreciation is what we're going to talk about. And the big, beautiful bill how things have changed this year and section 179 Okay, so this is about buying things for your business or for your side hustle or whatever. So even real estate, like buying buying a vehicle to go look at real estate, whatever it is, investing in the software that you need to see if something is a good deal. You know, investing in there's so much out there where you can figure out, like, where for foreclosures are happening. Like air DNA, if you want to do some short term rentals, Airbnbs, things like that, like all that stuff qualifies for bonus depreciation. So what actually is bonus depreciation. Why is this so big? There we go. So bonus depreciation, it allows businesses to deduct large portions of the expenses of things that qualify. So if you think it's tangible property, right, like vehicles, software equipment, tools, things like, like, I don't know, lawn mowers, welders, trucks, heavy equipment, computer systems, camera systems. There's a lot of stuff applies to this, but, like, it's real, tangible stuff. What it doesn't include is, like, land buildings. You can do certain like enhancements and things to the buildings, but the buildings and the land itself, it has a whole different guidelines, but you can, and it doesn't even matter if it's new or used. So say that you need a new vehicle for your medical transport company. You can buy a five year old van, and that qualifies for bonus depreciation. So and what it does is it allows you to deduct 100% of the cost of that vehicle or that equipment in the very first year. Okay. Okay, so what does that mean for you? Well, let's look at the way it used to be, before bonus depreciation, pre big, beautiful bill. So the the tax cuts and Jobs Act in, I don't know, in Trump's first administration, it was bonus depreciation was 100% at the at the beginning of that and then it would phase out from 2023 to 2027 So officially, this year, without the BBB, it would have been at 40% okay, but because of the BBB, it's back to 100% so what is what is done is restore it to 100% permanently. So unless they create a new law and remove that, it means that any equipment that you buy, anything that qualifies you get to deduct 100% of that asset in the very first year that you put it into use. Starting at, I think it's January 15, 2025, or January 19. There it is. So it eliminates that whole step down, phase out schedule, but you are still limited to property with a useful life of 20 years or less. So, you know, that includes just about any kind of equipment or tool you would ever use in your business, including cars. You know, any, basically, anything, anything other than like physical property and land. States are a little bit different, so it might not help you as much state to state, but federally, which is where most of your taxes go to anyway, it helps immensely. So what are we saying here? Right? Why is everybody harping on this and and why is it a big deal well before, the way things were is you say you buy a truck for $100,000 or a big van, or whatever it is, some kind of piece of equipment for $100,000 what you would do is you would have a little bit of depreciation that you could deduct from your taxes spread out over several years, you know, 510 years or something like that. So you might get 5000 this year, 5000 next year, 5000 the following year, or 10 or whatever it is, but it would be spread out over the lifetime of that asset, as long as you had it well, with bonus depreciation, you can take it upfront. So say you earned $100,000 from your business this year, but you bought $100,000 piece of equipment. What does that mean? That means that you're not going to pay a dime in federal taxes because you have $100,000 in deductions. So you can take the money that you normally would have paid to Uncle Sam, which is going to be, you know, probably 25% of your income, that $25,000 and you can reinvest it into your business. You can buy more equipment. You can, you know, buy another business, buy real estate, but it's the money coming back to you, instead of being sent to the government or spread out over multiple years and slowing you down. Okay, so let's think about this. So when it comes to vehicles, especially everybody you know on social media says, Oh, I'm going to buy a G wagon, or whatever, these expensive luxury cars, and I'm going to deduct it because I have an LLC or a business or whatever. And what it comes down to is your GVWR, which is your vehicle weight rating, the gross vehicle weight rating, and that's the the maximum amount of weight that your vehicle can carry. So that's not the actual weight of the vehicle, but it's what it can actually carry or tow or whatever is 6000 pounds or more, that's the sweet spot. So if it's over 6000 pounds, it qualifies for complete 100% bonus depreciation, and we'll get into that a little bit more, but it has to be used for business. You can't just buy a car and or a truck and use it day to day in your regular life and not in your business and expect to deduct that you might get away with it, but if you ever get audited and you don't have proof that you're using that for the business, then you're screwed, and you're gonna have to pay back all of that, you know, savings and taxes, they're going to make you pay that. And there are limits to luxury car. So if it's under $6,000 the most you can do is 20,200 for that first year. So if you get something like a passenger car or, you know, even if it's a cheap little thing like a Chevy Cruze or Chevy Malibu or something like that. It's like a brand new car is like 25,000 $30,000 the most you can deduct in that first year is 20,200 because it doesn't meet that 6000 pounds GVWR. So this, this works in conjunction with section 179 section 179 was the, only thing we had before bonus depreciation, and it's a way to expense assets spread out over time. So it's similar in that it allows immediate deductions, but you don't get as much of a deduction with section 179 so it's subject to dollar limits, and there are phase outs. It's limited by taxable income, so you can never have enough of a deduction from section 179 to put you in a negative tax burden. So if you make $100,000 and you have $200,000 in deductions, you can't with section 179 you can't carry that 100,000 to next year or the following year with bonus depreciation, you can but now with section 179

Unknown Speaker  09:47
but you can use it with 179

Speaker 1  09:51
or with bonus depreciation. You can use the two together. So let's look at, let's look at the difference first. So the limits used to be, it was, it's. 6179 was all we had. So you could do 1.2 5 million, that was it, which most people are never going to get there anyway. But there's no dollar limit for bonus depreciation, and that that is really important for like, larger businesses that are equipment heavy, like think about if you had an equipment rental business, and you have backos and bulldozers and you know what, all that big heavy equipment, tractors and whatnot, it wouldn't take you very long to get to 1.2 5 million, but with bonus depreciation, you could buy all of that stuff this year with commercial loans and completely deduct it in the very first year, and then next year, buy more stuff, because you saved all that money in taxes. So with bonus depreciation, you can actually create a net loss, which means, like what I was just saying, that if you have $200,000 in deductions, and you only earn $100,000 then you have $100,000 deduction this year, and then $100,000 deduction next year, and the subsequent years until you actually use it up with 179 it's, it's a little bit broader reach. You know you can use building, improvements, vehicles, it's, there's not a lot that's exempt from either one, as far you know, except for land. But it's a little bit broader with with 179 and there's some flexibility. So you could pick and choose what you wanted to apply 179 to. If you bought five trucks this year, you could say, I want to apply it to truck one, two and three, but not four and five with bonus depreciation. You can't do that. You either apply it to everything or nothing and but you can use them together, right? So what you would do is you would apply 179 first, and then you would, excuse me, yeah, 179 first, and then you would apply bonus appreciation. So let's look at how that would actually work. So say you, your business, bought $200,000 of equipment this year. It's after January 19. It's going to qualify. So with section 179 you could expense $100,000 of that equipment. So what's left over? You've got $100,000 that's where bonus appreciation is going to come in. It's going to allow you to deduct that complete $100,000 and that means your total deductions for the first year are the full cost of that equipment. So if you earn 200 grand in 2025 and you bought that big piece of equipment, you owe no taxes whatsoever. And if you're earning about $200,000 usually in taxes you're going to you're going to pay like 30 grand, 3035 it depends on on you know what your situation is, but like 35 to 45,000 so at the end of the year, you'll get a big fat check from the IRS for like $35,000 $5,000 so let's look at how that works with vehicles. Because this is what everybody wants to know, right? If I buy a brand new SUV, can I deduct it from my taxes and say it's for the business? Yes and no. Okay, so let's think about if you bought a heavy SUV, which is six, you know, a G, G, V, W, R, greater than 6000 pounds, and it qualifies for bonus depreciation, and there's no luxury limits and things like that. And you use it for 75% business. So if it costs $50,000

Unknown Speaker  13:35
so 75% of 50,000 is 3737 five.

Speaker 1  13:39
Okay, so you have to, you can only get the deductions based on the business use. Whatever you use personally, you're responsible, responsible for personally, okay, but, and also it has to be at least 50% business. If it's, if you use it less than 50% it does not qualify, and you need to show proof of that. So with section 179 you could deduct 31,300 and then your remaining basis would be 6200 you can use bonus depreciation and wipe the full rest of that out, and your total deduction is 37 five. So you already have all of your business use completely deducted from that SUV. You can also after that. You can deduct the expenses related to it, because that goes for any vehicle that is for business use. You can deduct the fuel as an expense. You can deduct the insurance. You can deduct the maintenance, all of that stuff, at least 75% of it, because you have, you know, that's what you're using for the business every single year, as long as you use that, that piece of equipment, or that vehicle, that never stops as long as you keep using it. So what kind of vehicles are actually eligible for this? I put a little list together, and you. Could get crazy with it. You can get, you know, it's Escalades, expeditions, Yukons, BMW X fives. And then you get into your work vehicles, like your legitimate, you know, Chevy trucks, Ford trucks. But then you have rivians, cyber trucks, Land Rovers, all that, Audi Q sevens, like they all have, GVW, ours, 6000 pounds or more. So that means that if you wanted to and you were legitimately going to use it for at least 50% business use, you have huge potential tax deductions, and some states still have some rebates for EVs and stuff like that. So these are all possibilities to use for your business, okay? And then get some huge tax breaks. So have you wondered why you see a lot of construction companies have an $80,000 truck recently, I know I have like in my area, all I see nowadays is like a plumbing truck. That's a 2025, $80,000 truck, or a big, huge van with a fresh wrap where it's got their their name plastered all over it. And that's because of the big, beautiful bill, and it's because of bonus depreciation. People are buying that stuff up, you know, left and right, right now, because they know next year on their taxes it's going to be a huge benefit. Yeah, and there's, there you go, all all the cool cars that you can get. So does anybody have any questions about that? I know I went through it fast, and there are pitfalls and things that, if you don't know how to properly use this, you can shoot yourself in the foot, and you're in trouble, right? So there are apps out there that you can put on your phone to log not just your hours that you're using, but your G it will, like, log your GPS position. So say, you know, you're going to pick up a client, you're going to take a client out for dinner, you're going to pick up equipment. You're going shopping for your business, your whatever it is that's business related, and so many peripheral things are business related. You'd be surprised. You know, even going to pick up toilet paper, you can expense that. Going to pick up a potential have a meeting with somebody that might be an employee in the future. You can, you know, that qualifies that kind of stuff. You just have to have it logged. And you don't want to wait until, you know, you get in a bind and the IRS says, well, where's these logs? So you want to do your, you know, dot your i's and cross your t's. But this is 100% doable, and

Unknown Speaker  17:41
considering buying a new vehicle myself, just for the business,

Speaker 2  17:47
I have a question. Shane, okay, um, so I just had to buy a new vehicle. My husband made me my car wasn't like falling apart, but, um, so I just bought a Suburban. So I am looking like, still looking, still can't find anything, but like, Okay, say I buy a business, whatever.

Speaker 1  18:10
Hold on. If you have an LLC and you're looking to buy a business, and you're driving that vehicle to look at businesses that qualifies,

Speaker 2  18:19
okay, that that was my question was, should I open up an LLC to do this?

Speaker 1  18:23
Okay, even if you don't even have to open up an LLC, if you're logging that my the purpose, when I'm driving this vehicle is to go look at this landscaping company. Or, you know, it doesn't have to necessarily be in the LLC name. It can be in your name. I expense a whole lot of my personal vehicle miles driving back and forth to the businesses or, like, even if I'm looking at potential real estate investments, that gets logged as a business expense all the gas I use for it. It all at the end of the year, it calculates up, okay? This is how I take odometer readings on January 1 at the end of the year. This is how many miles I put on it. And I go back and look at the logs, or my accountant does, like, here's the report of the logs for business expenses, and here's how much. That's where the percentage comes from. Here's how much I was, you know, using for the business, how much I was using for personal so even though it's in my name, it's still expenses and same with this.

Speaker 2  19:24
Yeah, alrighty, thank you, yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  19:28
totally, you can do it, but, and I was using an app called Genji, I don't like it. I'm not using it anymore. I need to find a new app that's a little better. You can use QuickBooks for it. Actually, if you already have QuickBooks, has a, like, a little GPS thing

Speaker 2  19:44
in there. Okay, all right, thanks.

Speaker 1  19:47
It's great question, though, and that that suburban will definitely qualify as 6000 pounds or greater, because if you bought a smaller car, you just don't get as many deductions. You can still deduct it and portions of it. But not like you can the big trucks and big SUVs, because, you guys know, I'm a nerd and I would love to have a cyber truck, even though it's big and ugly. I like them, but it's hard for me to to justify it, even though it's a big tax break. So we'll see. And it can be new or used. It doesn't have to be a brand new vehicle. It can be 510, years old. You can still do it. It just has to be new to you. And it might not even be a vehicle, you know, you can. You can you get a new laptop and do the same thing with a laptop if you're using it for business use. It can be furniture for your office. So many things. They are not ugly. Gina cut

Speaker 3  20:57
it out, and so is this only for the equipment bought for this year? Or can someone rolling something from last year?

Speaker 1  21:08
No, you can't. You can't use it for things that you bought last year. Last year, the bonus depreciation is 40% is where it's at, or 60% I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  21:18
So you don't get that full one. You bought something for $100,000

Unknown Speaker  21:22
last year. You can deduct $60,000

Speaker 1  21:30
it's only, yeah, January, 19 of this year or later.

Speaker 3  21:38
Okay, so like, I'm into medical transportation, as you are wearing, I just started, and my business finally, like this start, but I was looking into purchasing vehicle. So I mean, when you started, I wasn't able to listen. I was picking up my son from football, so I can really feel, I think I'm going to go back and play it all over to see how I can use it to advantage. Since you're talking about vehicles, and the major part of my business is vehicles, or

Speaker 1  22:18
well, and almost all of the big cargo vans, which I assume that's what you're using, right? Big cargo vans, is that right?

Speaker 3  22:26
Yeah, you're breaking I'm sorry. Okay, yeah,

Speaker 1  22:30
those big cargo vans all qualify as with a GVWR, which is gross vehicle weight rating over 6000 pounds, and they qualify for unlimited deduction under bonus depreciation.

Unknown Speaker  22:45
So that counts for,

Unknown Speaker  22:48
like, a minivans as well.

Speaker 1  22:53
I don't like so here's how you check it right. If you, if you open up the door to to the vehicle, or you can look it up online, of course, but like, if you, if you're at a car lot, and you want to know for sure, open up the driver's side door, there's a little sticker inside the door, and it'll say GVWR. It'll have the number of pounds, and then have the actual vehicle pounds. You don't care about the actual vehicle pounds, you care about the gross vehicle weight rating, which is how much that it cost when it's loaded,

Unknown Speaker  23:22
so maybe, and how many?

Speaker 1  23:24
There's some, there's some. You said, What's that?

Speaker 3  23:31
No, what was the pound that you just said, I just want to put it to my brain so

Speaker 1  23:35
it needs a 6000 Yeah, over 6000 pounds. Okay, so like these, I listed some right here, right and I didn't put the there was a lot of cargo vans that actually, when I looked them up to see what was over 6000 pounds, GB, WR, but there are a lot of them qualify. Now, I didn't see any minivans on the list, so I don't think that they're kind of small.

Unknown Speaker  24:02
Okay, thank you.

Speaker 1  24:09
But I mean, have you ever wondered when you see someone that you know is wealthy and they have, they have, like, a brand new a G wagon or Yukon or an Escalade, or, you know, the BMW x7 which is the huge BMW. And you think, you know, they're supposed to be smart with their money. Why are they, you know, buying an expensive vehicle that's going to depreciate so quickly and, you know, blowing all that money on it? Are they leasing it? Are they getting a loan for it? Are they paying cash and just throwing it away. Well, this is why they do it and how they do it. They do it for the tax benefits so they can drive a brand new, nice, luxury vehicle and save money on taxes, because it's all about at the end of the year, if you can keep the the the more money you can. Keep that you earn for that year, the better off you are, because that's just more money you can invest, and more assets that cash flow, that you can buy.

Speaker 3  25:17
I mean, you would do this for business this already like up and running, correct? You don't do this for someone. No.

Speaker 1  25:25
You can do this on a brand new LLC or on, you know, a business that's been around for years. Either one, it's just what matters is what you use the vehicle for, if you legitimately use it for your business, at least 50% use business. Or can, you know, show that you do that? That's all that matters.

Speaker 3  25:52
We definitely need to involve like specialized people who prefer taxes, who really are good at this? Yeah.

Speaker 1  26:04
I mean, if you, if you have a business anyway, you should be, you shouldn't be using, like, any you know, Turbo Tax, or doing it yourself. You You need a professional to help you with your taxes, because you're going to be leaving a lot of money on the table otherwise. So the what I always tell people that are starting a business or want to learn how to do it, you need a consultation, you know, with a CPA, not during tax season, but, like, right now would be good time to have a consultation. Like, here's what I want to do. You know? What do I you know? What do I need to keep track of, how should I log, you know, miles, things like that. So you don't want to have any surprises when, you know, next year rolls around, it's time for tax season, and they're like, oh, you can't do that. You didn't log your miles. Or you can't do that because you didn't use, you know, your vehicle 50% of time for business, things like that. You don't want any surprises, but, you know, do your own research too. Don't trust them completely, because a lot of times they don't know everything either.

Unknown Speaker  27:15
Wally, you have your hand up. What's up?

Speaker 4  27:19
Yeah, I was gonna say, I remember one time you mentioned getting a good accountant. And do you, is there any way, like, like, you think there's, like, a set of questions that we should ask to, like, know, who's a good one, who isn't? Yeah, sort of stuff

Speaker 1  27:38
like that, yeah. So especially if you're, if you're gonna, you know, buy a business, and that's your your goal, which I know it is for you Wally, like you want to know, have they been involved in acquisitions? If so, what were the sizes of those acquisitions? What types of businesses like, have they done pro forma statements for potential acquisitions? Like, you don't want somebody that has just been doing, you know, 1040 easys for, you know, small families that that's not really going to help you. You want people that have been involved in big time acquisitions, that know what to look for. They understand payroll, you know, they they have a lot of business accounts. And then for me, what was very important for me was they needed to understand short term rental loophole real estate laws. And you know, that's very important as well. So the questions I would ask is, you know, have you been involved in acquisition? If so, how much you know, what size, what types of businesses do you do payroll and payroll taxes for people? Do you have real estate investors that you prepare taxes for? Have you personally invested in real estate and what can you tell me about the short term rental loophole? Those are the questions that I asked when I was looking for the last accountant that I got. So I went through several accountants before I found the ones that I'm using right now, and the ones I'm using right now is true books. They're very expensive, but it's it's totally worth it. So I Joe, so let's just talk about, I'll put some numbers out there. So I had to pay true books $2,500 to do my taxes. Okay, it's multiple businesses. I had a huge tax burden that I would have had to pay 10s of 1000s of dollars if I didn't understand how taxes work, and they didn't understand how taxes work. I just got my refund tonight, and it was over 20,000 so I went from having 10s of 1000s that I had to pay to the IRS just gave me over $20,000 today. Just hit my bank account. So yeah, it's very expensive, but had I not used them and I would have stuck with my old account. Account. I don't know if you guys remember that I had to fire that accountant. I would have had to pay probably 15 grand in taxes. That's That's how, how much tax preparation and tax avoidance strategies can help you. So that might have been a little too much information, but there you go, that's what we're here for. Right to know this stuff is possible.

Unknown Speaker  30:30
That's a great question, though, Wally,

Speaker 4  30:40
do you ever sorry, one other question. So, do you ever like, find yourself like, even after you chose, you know, the best possible person, or you found somebody that, like, really understands and knows what they're doing? Do you ever like, find yourself having to, like, give them recommendations, or, like, you know, keep them up to date with like these new like new laws, like all the sex the section 179 the big, beautiful Bill stuff like that. Or do you find that? Like, when you find somebody experienced that they just naturally know this stuff and they recommend it to you?

Speaker 1  31:18
Yeah, I mean it, if I have to talk, if I have to talk, if I have to explain section 179 to an accountant, I'm out. I'm out. Those are, those are things that and they they know the nuance to it. They know that like how to push the limits and what you should and shouldn't do. But no, a good accountant, you don't have to inform them on changes they should be. That's what you're paying them for. You know, you shouldn't have to do their job for them. They should. They should be bringing this stuff to you now. You always want to know enough that you can ask the educated questions, but yeah, you shouldn't have to know the ins and outs of this stuff. So no, no, this particular company. And, I mean, I feel like they should pay me for promotions at this point, because I've been talking about them to a lot of people, but they were really good. Like, I didn't have to, I didn't have to ask them questions. As far as, like, you know, hey, what are we going to do for this? What are we going to do for that? They brought it to me like, hey, we need to do this. We need to do this. We need to prepare for next year, because this has changed. They were on top of everything for pro forma statements and things like that. But, you know, tax preparation, and you know, preparing your tax return. They were great for that. That's not the same part that I use for pro formas and business acquisition analysis. I have a different person for that. Sorry.

Speaker 4  32:52
Who did you say that was again that that you mentioned that you'd mentioned that you

Speaker 1  32:55
use for the business analysis. Yeah. His name is Randy Snodgrass. Love him. Thank you. Anybody else have any questions about just you can talk ask any questions about general taxes if you want to. Oh, and just so everybody knows, there's no real difference between a Cadillac Escalade and a Chevy or a GMC Yukon and Chevy Tahoe. They're basically the same vehicle with different badging, and the Escalade costs like 10, 15,000 more for no reason, just so you know, it's just a little words to exit on. I.
