Speaker 1  00:03
Hey, what's up? Everybody? This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday, November 20, 2025, and tonight we are going to be talking about deal funding strategies, creative ways to structure a deal so that maybe you can, can get into a business with no money, little money, or come in with partners, come in with suppliers. We're going to talk about some. I think it's six, five or six strategies that will help you overcome either being inexperienced sometimes or just having a lack of capital to get going. And I figured it would be a good time to go over that, especially because I saw some stats on businesses selling, and there are a lot of businesses that just aren't selling, and I I don't understand that, like we're looking every day for business, for a good business, so I'm thinking that those are the ones that probably aren't really good deals. And, you know, it's just like a house nobody wants to buy a crumbling house in a bad neighborhood. I think it's a lot of that. But at the same time, if you're somebody who is willing to take a risk on a business that's struggling, maybe you could get in there and use one of these creative strategies to be able to turn that business business around, and so I thought that would be a good place to start. All right,

Unknown Speaker  01:27
let's go.

Speaker 1  01:33
Now. My little, little generated image here looks a little sinister. I don't know how that happened, but it's supposed to be just somebody that's smart getting a business for very little money. That's what, that's what I told it to do. But it looks like he's getting ready to stomp it. I don't know, but it's low cash strategies. So, so let's, let's get into it. So obviously, some of the biggest barriers to buying a business are your your down payment, your credit score. Maybe you have a personal financial credit profile that you might have like a bankruptcy in there, you might have something that will pretty much block you from getting SBA loan or even from capital stacking sometime, but you don't want to give up because they're, you know, just like with real estate, there are so many options that if you really try to find a deal and you network and you are smart about things, you can still buy a business. So everybody assumes you need a whole bunch of money to buy a business. Not true. You know, we've talked about that many times. Sometimes all you have to do is be creative, have relationships with the right people, and you can use the structure of the deal to replace cash. So what you're trying to do is you're trying to align what the seller wants with your performance. So sellers are concerned with several things. Sellers are concerned that you're you're not going to be able to operate the business, right? You're not going to be able to bring enough funds to close. You're going to tank the business. You're going to fire their employees. You're going to, you know, that kind of stuff. Those are the things that they're worried about. They want to get paid. They want to gracefully exit, and they want to see the business continue forward. So what you have to do is you have to focus on control and performance based equity and partnerships. So I'm going to talk about that here in a second. So one of the strategies is called an instant earn in so you earn ownership through action, not through money. So say, for instance, the buyer is going to receive, so you go, I don't even know what kind of business, doesn't matter what it is, but say you're going to go buy business a and what you're going to do is you're going to receive some equity immediately when you take control, but not the entire business itself, you're going to, you're going to get a chunk of that business and all of this stuff, all these strategies would be in a purchase agreement, fully, you know, signed, vetted by an attorney to make sure it's, it's equitable for both sides. You know, this is not just something you handshake on, you say, whatever. This is ironclad contracts to set this stuff up. But what this does is the seller can see that you're committed to the business before you actually make the deal on the entire business. You're not going to get a controlling share of the business. You're just going to get a small chunk. So essentially, you're going to come in there, you're going to start taking it over, and the owner is going to see that you can actually operate this business, that you're you're willing to do what it takes to actually get in there and turn the business around if it's failing, or modernize it, or whatever it takes. So the bet, the benefits to this are you don't have to put any money in. You're going to build confidence with the. Seller, and it's really, it's better for people who have already been in an industry. So say, for instance, you're in healthcare, and you know exactly how to run a medical transportation business and how to deal with that. You know you could find a big player in your area, and you can say, Okay, give me 5% equity. I will come in, I will operate this business for this many months, and I'll show you what I can do, and then we can structure a deal after that for the rest of the rest of the equity. But I want to prove to you and the you know, you can even put a timeline on it. You can say 5% equity for this many months. And if I meet these crap, these benchmarks, then, you know, we move on to a deal, or I, I take off, and you know, you haven't lost anything other than just some time and effort. So, so here's an example, a buyer takes over, maybe the day to day operations of an auto repair shop, instead of paying the down payment of 10% or whatever, you might earn 25% equity after six months if the monthly revenue increases by 20% so that business the last auto repair shop that I just bought, I knew that the owner was strangling this business. They weren't advertising, they weren't using technology, they weren't doing they weren't upselling. There's so many things that weren't happening that I knew needed to happen. So if I were, would have come in and try to structure a deal like that, I would say, okay, in six months, I'm going to own a quarter of this. As long as the revenue is increased by 20 our revenues have increased by it's about 80% in the first four months in this business. Just nothing, doing nothing special, other than things I just talked about and getting that other person out of the way, who was, who would say things like, oh, turn the ads off. There's too there's too many customers here, which is just, it just baffles me. But he would do that. So something like that. You could go in and instead of bringing the 10% down payment, or, in my case, I brought 20% down payment for this business, I could, could have gotten in there with actually zero down, and we'd be approaching that six month spot, and I still would have no money down. But I don't a quarter of that business. So even, even if, after six months, I didn't want, you know, I was like, Well, I don't really like this business. I still own 25% so I would be a minority partner in the business. But if they ever wanted to sell it, they're going to have to give me 25% because I've increased it. But anyway, you can see how, how that's ideal. You risk no money, you risk only time and effort. And at the same time, they didn't risk their entire business. They allowed you to to show them, like, hey, I can do this. And then after that, six months point, then you structure a deal to take over the whole business and whatever. And you could even put that in the contract. You could say, after six months, here's the deal we do when I meet this benchmark, then you sell it to me for this price, which would be maybe a little more than they were asking for to begin with. You see where I'm going with it. So rewards performance and transfers the risk from the seller to the buyer. Okay, so here's another one, sweat equity. Everybody knows what that is. Sweat equity. You get in there and you work hard and you you earn equity. It's a big term in real estate, especially so you're going to trade your time, your expertise, for ownership. So every everybody here has skills. Everybody has skills. You know what they are. They might be sales, they might be technology. They might be, you know what, even if it's like marketing, it might be designing signs and promotions, whatever it is, everybody has their certain skill set that they bring, and you can leverage that in order to get equity in a business. So you would manage that business and put your time and effort into it to earn equity. So you would, you don't need any money down. You don't need, you know, to get a loan. You don't have to do all that stuff. You would structure it much like the last one you would structure in the deal. After a certain amount of time, you get this much equity. So let's, let's think about an example here. So a digital marketer partners with the small coffee shop. She agrees to manage marketing and social media in exchange for 15% ownership. So if you don't know these, like marketing companies charge a ton of money to manage social media. It's a very, very expensive thing to you know, you give them your Tiktok, your your Facebook, your Instagram, and they're, they're putting posts out there every day about the business. They're bringing in followers. They're doing all that. And it is very, very expensive. So you take a small business that wants to grow but doesn't necessarily want to put. Doesn't have the money maybe to invest in that. They could give you 15% and you put your time and money into it. You're doing all that same stuff because you're a marketing, you know, professional, or you just understand it, and then you're growing their business. And all they all they risk was 15% and you could also structure it to where, just like the last one, where maybe, you know, three months from now, they have to reach a certain revenue, they have to see a revenue growth, or something like that after three months, and then you get your 15% but essentially, you've traded time and expertise for equity, so, but not money, okay? And this is a good one. It's called the pipe rent strategy. So with this one, you partner with a business prior to the acquisition. Okay, so say, for instance, like the example here is a vending machine. So you might want to buy a vending machine business. So what you would do is go to a supplier, and you would say, hey, I want to buy this vending machine business, and I will agree to use you as my supplier, and only you for the first five years of this business. But I need help to get this business. I need a partner. I need cash and a cash injection, whatever, and I will agree to use you exclusively as my supplier for this amount of time. So what they get is a long term client that is an exclusive client for them. And you know, you didn't you, what you get is you got funding and maybe help on a down payment or even, sometimes even just credit with that vendor that you can then take to the bank and say, Hey, I have a partnership with this vendor. They're willing to give me 20% less on my costs, or they're willing to extend a line of credit for this amount of money so I can keep everything going whatever, but it just puts another, you know, bullet, you know, in your gun. So you can, when you go to the bank, you can say, pow, pow, pow, I've got this, this and this. And then they understand, like, Okay, this is not somebody who's just willy nilly going in there and trying to buy a business. Like, they're, they're talking to strategic partners, and they're they're already networking, because those are the intangibles that people in the business world understand. That's what makes people successful. It's not necessarily numbers, it's not necessarily this and that, but it's a lot of it is just finding creative ways to solve problems. So the benefits of that, again, is access to capital, and without any debt, you don't necessarily have any debt. You already have a partnership with a vendor before we even get in there on day one. And, you know, it's not a bank, it's it's a supplier, and you're not getting credit score run. It doesn't matter if you've had,

Unknown Speaker  13:01
you know, some kind of,

Speaker 1  13:04
I don't know, like a bankruptcy, or you've got charge offs on your on your credit, all that kind of stuff wouldn't matter in that situation. Okay, so revenue share this the pre sale test for this one. It's pretty cool, because what you're going to do is you're going to generate funds prior to the acquisition, before you even own this place. You might have everything structured and ready to go, a purchase agreement, a closing date, all that kind of stuff. And you can run promotions and pre orders on the future business. So you could go in, you could say, Okay, this is a land I'm a landscaping business. I'm going to buy just a mowing service to to absorb because maybe we don't do mowing. And you're going to go ahead and sell for the spring a bunch of jobs already, like, here's our prices. You book now, you get this kind of a discount, and you would come in day one with 2530 different clients that are ready for a weekly lawn service. So you go to the bank with that, or you go to the owner of the lawn mowing business with that and say, hey, you know, I, this is how much I I'm ready for this business. I already have these, these clients at these addresses, they want mowed right now, and they're willing to pay me this much money every single week to mow it. So let's make this deal happen. So you come in already with that, and if you wanted to, and you're really good at sales, you can have them pay upfront and bring that money with you as a down payment, maybe not necessarily with lawn mowing, but you can, I don't know. You can think of of other services that maybe you get monthly fees or something like that to to bring with you. But again, you've sacrificed nothing but time and effort in that, okay, third party Revenue Share. So the way this one works is you partner with another company, and you you, along with them, run these pre sale campaigns. So for instance, you might have a marketing agency that you partner with because you're you're going to use them, you want them to do a grand opening or reopening, or you've got a new name, you know, it's new, fresh look on whatever business it is. And so in this example, it's a gym, and maybe the agency keeps 20% of the pre sale revenue. So you're going to say, hey, help me market this. We'll do this blast to the whole community to get more gym memberships. And of all the gym memberships that I get, you're going to get 20% of that initial money that I get up front. So you've paid them nothing. All they put in was their time and effort. And at the same time, the day you start that business, you have a full marketing team behind you and ready to go. Okay, so it's they already have, like, audiences in place. They already have customers. They already have the systems. They have all the stuff that you need. So you're going to take their group of people, their community, and plug them into your new business. So again, it could be for lawn mowing, it could be for a gym, it could be for vending machines. It could be for whatever, laundromat, whatever doesn't matter. It all works the same way.

Unknown Speaker  16:28
So those are just the

Speaker 1  16:31
like the main ones that I saw in that document that I wanted to kind of highlight, and I want to go through that document and kind of show you how to use it, because I think it's a little intimidating. But the main thing is just, you know what I'm saying is you can leverage effort, you can leverage creativity, you can leverage hard work expertise. It doesn't always have to be a big chunk of money. There are ways to go about this, especially the seller finance route, where you can find a business that might be struggling a little bit, it's going to come with a little more risk. But those businesses that I was talking about at the beginning of this video, where those are getting dissolved and not sold, those are the ones that are ripe for strategies like this, where you can come in and you can say, Okay, I know you've been trying to sell this business for a year. It's not working out. Let's try this. I'll come in. You give me 25% of this business after six months, if I grow your revenues by 20% you know they're going to think about it. If they've been trying to sell this business and they can't get anybody to buy it because of whatever reason, and you're willing to sacrifice your time and put into it, what are you risking? Just time? You know you didn't risk any money. You just risk time. And if you can make it work, if you can grow that 20% at the end of that, you've got not only equity in in a business that is now not failing, but doing much better. And then you have a line on buying that business before anyone else can get to it after you've turned it around. So see how this can can build if you if you're hungry, you can make it happen. Okay, so let's look at this document so you can see what I'm talking about. So the resource bundle, if you go to the resource bundle, and it is called deal funding strategies right here. There, it's like 200 and some deal funding strategies, something like that. Where's that? Over the bottom? Yeah, 222 Okay, so it's all different kinds of stuff, everything you can think of, and it explains it in detail, all of this stuff. And they have it from before you've closed on it, maybe after you've closed, maybe during the close, like what's a little bit of work before and a little bit after. It's all labeled like that. So this document actually came from, I forget the name of it, but it but it was a mentorship that cost $12,000 to get into the mentorship. Okay, that's where this document came from, infiltrated this group, got the stuff out of it, and given it to you guys so you can use it. But this is like, it's really some brilliant stuff. Some of it's a little hard to understand, but there, there's the pipe wrench right there, right you can see the stuff that we talked about. Let's find another 1/3, party, just like we talked about double escrow. There's, like, all these weird named strategies, but it tells you what it is, and if you find a business, and you look through this, you might be able to find something that will fit that business. So don't forget that this is out there. Don't let this document intimidate you, because it's a big one, but it's got just some great, great ideas in here. You. All kinds of seller finance strategies, all kinds of traditional finance strategies, you name it. It's in here. Okay, all right. Does anybody have any questions on that, like, how you could possibly leverage this? Do you understand the types of businesses we're talking this is not going to be the laundromat that you're competing with 100 people to buy. It's not going to work for this. But at the same time, if it's a salon that's been there for sale for a year, and the owner is 83 years old and really wants to sell, and it's considering just dissolving it, then this kind of strategy is perfect for that.

Unknown Speaker  20:50
Guys. Any questions?

Unknown Speaker  20:57
Nothing, throwing out gold. Here we explain everything so well. Of course, there's no question. Oh yeah,

Speaker 1  21:10
but yeah, I don't know that I like this. I often go back and check this document, because no one knows all these strategies. No one knows these weird names and whatever.

Unknown Speaker  21:19
But it's pretty cool.

Speaker 2  21:24
I saw Shane. There is a an option to take a loan against life insurance policy, right?

Unknown Speaker  21:32
One of the strategies, right? Yep,

Speaker 1  21:36
yep. Some of it's just, just creative funding strategies. There's, I think somewhere in here, there's a 401 k loan. There's a stock portfolio loan. I think some of that is as simple as that too. There's, there's ways that you can swap inventory with a supplier to get equity. So like all kinds of different things. See, if we can find one. There's the roll up, right when we talked about before. You know you could use stock in your other company if you already have a company to try to to get this, this new one, so many options. So Don't, don't just get stuck on the one thing that's what I'm trying to get at here. It even has the capital stacking, basically the credit card down payment.

Speaker 3  22:39
Okay? Yeah, no question. If you're gonna What's up, George, if you're gonna try to use one of these strategies, do you think it's probably best to hold off on mentioning it until the first meeting with the seller, because I feel like a lot of brokers, if you mentioned off the bat, they're gonna say, No,

Speaker 1  22:57
yeah, yeah. You don't want to open with this, because they will keep you from the seller, because they're not going to get, you know, the big payday that they want. And if it, you know, this is more for for sale by owners too. It's a better fit for that, because when it, when there's a broker involved, then you both have to figure out how the broker is going to get compensated if they sell the business, because they have a an agreement with that broker to give them a certain amount of the sale, somebody's going to have to pay the broker, or they're going to get mad and try to sue and stuff. Same thing with, you know, a real estate agent, if you you know, like, if you do a subject to or something like that, where the the agent's not going to get any money. Usually you have to pay the broker fees, or they, you know, in order to make everybody happy, same situation, yeah, this would want to. This would be something that you would after you're confident that because you can't make a deal like this, without visiting a business, without knowing intimately what's going on with the business. So you would put it under loi, and then go from there. You know, you don't have a purchase agreement. You haven't actually signed anything that's binding. You would just come and say, Okay, let's do this. This is, this is what I'm offering. Otherwise, I don't, I don't want to buy this business outright. I would like to do a strategy like this, because I'm concerned with blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever.

Unknown Speaker  24:29
You know, I got you, yeah, and they have to be a little bit desperate.

Speaker 1  24:37
You know, every owner just wants that big payday, and then they go off, walk off into the sunset, but that's not realistic for a business that's not doing too hot.

Unknown Speaker  24:49
Absolutely okay. Do.
