Speaker 1  00:00
Steve, hello everybody. So this is the money Language Academy. We're going to talk about tonight is we're going to talk about LLCs and the proper way to structure an LLC, and the whole process to create it with the intent of being able to get business funding. Even if that's not your intent, it's still a great idea to keep things within these parameters, to make sure that, because you never know what's going to happen, you might have all the funding you need, and you do what you need to do, and something happens, and you got to, you know, you got to scramble to to get things fixed. So it's always a good practice to do this. I do want to say, though, that each state is a little bit different. So, you know, I kept it very generic, but you know, the the LLC is all have to conform to certain standards that are set by the IRS. So there's a lot of, you know, common ground between all of them, but the websites that you go to, the the yearly reporting, things like that are different from state to state. So, yeah, let's, let's get to it. So in the academy documents, in the the shared drive, you'll find this. It's called the LLC DIY kit. I put, I went ahead and embedded links in here so you can go step by step through this whole process and just click right to the links, go right to the places I think they all work that. I mean, I just went through it all today to make sure that everything is, you know, modern, because some of the stuff had changed, and I actually removed some things. I found some better stuff. So, so, yeah, so it'll give you options, and what it'll do is it'll take you, you, if you want someone else to do it for you, right? You don't want to learn this stuff. You want it faster, you can always pay someone to do it, right? That's the trade off. And there are a lot of websites that are pretty good. That's how I started. When my first LLC, I didn't know how to do it. And I went to, I think the very first one I went to was ink authority, and because it was one of the cheapest ones I could find, and I learned a ton from how they did things. And they sent me a little binder that was all fancy. It's got my, like, first company name in it with a little plaque on the front. I felt like I was really a business owner at that point. I was like, This is amazing. I'm doing doing big things. But then the next one, I thought, Okay, I'll try some of the other ones. I'll try Taylor brands. I did that. Never will I ever use Taylor brands again. And that's not because they're not good at what they do. It's just because they're very expensive, they're fast. You get a lot of stuff. It's, it's a full package. You get emails, website. I mean, you name it, but it's very expensive, so, so just be aware of that. It just depends on on what you're looking for. You always pay for speed and you always pay for premium services. That's life. Okay? So first thing we'll talk about is the easy way, which is you just have somebody else do it. I think about the cheapest one you can use that still gives you a lot of options, is busy. Busy is a pretty good one. So let me see. I can just show you what it looks like, and I'll just show you this one, because it kind of they're all pretty much the same, right? You pick the type of entity you know would be LLC. I would recommend, if you ever get to a point where you want to create an S corp or a C Corp, to go to an attorney, those are those are more difficult, like I don't I would not try to do that on my own, and I wouldn't trust one of these companies to do it for me. It's things are a little bit different with with those so then you select your state, and then basically, you say, start, start my business. And first thing you'll do is, you want to, you'll have to pick a name, you know, that's what they want you to do first. And they're going to run through all the names in your state that are registered to make sure it doesn't conflict with another one. So, so yeah, busy is a good one. Ink authority, like I said, is very user friendly. It's easy. It's pretty cheap. I don't think it's quite as cheap as busy, but you can, you know, they'll do all your all your paperwork, they'll register everything, all that stuff if you want it. And pretty much all these are going to provide you, or they might charge you extra for it, but they'll give you an operating agreement. Which an operating agreement is basically the the structure of your LLC. So it's going to say who the who the manager is, who the members are. You know, what share. You know, if you have a partner, you know, you're 5050, or 8020, things like that. Do you have Yearly Meetings, monthly meetings, just, just all that kind of stuff, basically boilerplate stuff. And all of these companies will pretty much send you, you know, they have one that their legal team has put together, and they just cop. Paste, put your information in it and ship it to you, right? But it saves you some time. And then the articles of incorporation, that's actually, I guess that's that's the same thing as your registration. Those are all together. So, so you you apply, you pay the fees for the state, and the state will give you your articles back. Basically, it's like, so in Missouri, I'll get something, it comes from signed by the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, and it says, Here, you know, here's your articles. This person's the owner. You're registered in this state. It's you're of good standing, that kind of stuff. And then boi, I'll talk about that a little bit later. That's something that just came around last year, and it's beneficial ownership interest. And what that is, is the federal government wants to know who owns these LLCs. They don't want the unknown, unregistered, you know, Phantom kind of companies. They're trying to stop that. But that's a lot of legal battles going on with that. But right now, it's required. And then your EIN. Your EIN is your tax number. It's like the social security number for the for the LLC. It's when you file your taxes, you include it on there. If somebody asks you for a w9 which a w9 is a, you know, say someone's going to use your company and they're going to pay you more than $600 in a year, then they're going to need a 1099 they're going to send you a 1099 so you have to give them a w9 ahead of time, so they know your EIN. They know you're a legitimate business, you're registered, that kind of stuff. You'll need a business checking, which you use the EIN to get that. You'll need a business number, business address, business email, we'll, we'll get into more of that later. So that's, that's what you can get. Almost all of this stuff from a full service, LLC, creation company. These will will pretty much, you know, you know, the more you ask for, the more they they charge. Obviously, you can get like, busy has a free package, which will do a lot of the stuff for you, and then you can do some of it yourself. If you're more comfortable with doing your own operating agreement, you know, you can actually put have aI create a shell for you. You can find templates online. I'm getting ready. I'm going to throw one into the documents this week. That's one that I've been using, but it's, you know, like I said, it's state specific, but it'll still give you an idea how you can start it. But it's up to you if you want to learn how to do whatever you want somebody else to do it. So let's talk about the do it yourself. Route, the do it yourself. Route is, you know, it takes more time you're going to learn it, but once you do it, once, then you're not going to have to pay a service. You know, you're just your only charges. Then are what you have to pay for your filing fee within the state. In my state, it's 55 bucks. So I create an LLC for $55 and I don't have to pay any more fees for the lifetime of that LLC. If I want to transfer ownership or change the, you know, the way that it's structured, or something like that. It's $10 to change that stuff with the state. It's pretty straightforward. But I just caution, you know, be careful, take your time, ask questions and read this, read through this whole thing first, before you start, make sure that you're completely comfortable with the whole process. So that way, if you miss a step or whatever, you can go back so, and the very first thing you do is pick a business name. You know, everybody's like, Oh, I have all these ideas. And here's, here's what it boils down to, if you're looking for funding, you should not use your personal name, you know, don't, don't put, you know, Sergeant Powell, you know, rent a car or something like that, right? You want it to be something very generic that they don't really even know what it is. So initials are fine. If you want to use JSs, whatever that that's great. Just a weird name, like, I have multiple LLCs, and they're all combinations of the word kismet, Kismet solutions, Kismet enterprises, Kismet consulting, Kismet management, and they're all in that same cluster. There are a couple couple people squeezed in with a different name. They have that same name in my state, but pretty much I've got the market cornered on that, on that one in Missouri, but you can use anything, and at Bright heartland, Marathon, whatever, whatever you like, anchor, doesn't matter, but and then the second word try to use one of these four. One of these four is they're not industry specific. They don't raise any red flags. They're nice and simple. And you could use any of these for holding companies, real estate, whatever. You know, it's so generic that you can use it anywhere. And every state has, if you go on the Secretary of State's website, you can go on there and check to see if a name is available. So if you have an idea, like, I would like to call it whatever, whatever, you can go on there and. You can, you can do it like that. And you can also, if somebody already has a name, you really, really want that name. If they don't have LLC in their name, some states will let you put LLC, append that to a name that already exists, and they consider it different. So, but I caution you, because if they have a website or something, and they're more popular, they've gotten, you know somebody that you might get mistaken for them. So I don't think it's a good practice, but if you have your heart set on something, it's already taken. It is possible. So I just put some, just some examples. Here. You can see it's it's pretty straightforward. The next thing you want to decide is, do you want to appoint a Registered Agent, or do you want to be your own registered agent? So a Registered Agent is just the person that is, person and address that is responsible for accepting all your legal mail, like anything that's official coming from the state, like, if you were ever served a, you know, paperwork for a lawsuit, something like that, like, it would go to your registered agent. I pretty much just in my own registered agent. I'm not worried about my address being on there at the as the Registered Agent, I really don't care. Now I as far as property management, I do have a registered agent for that, because I don't want, just like random tenants to show up at my house, you know? I if they, if they're savvy and can find my address, so I would I separate that one, but just your average company, or if I'm owning real estate with an LLC, I just use me, I, you know, because I don't want to pay someone a lot of times. It's hundreds of dollars a year, and all they're doing is just funneling you mail, you know, but it can't be a PO Box either. So you have to use a physical address and to find one of those, just there's, I didn't find a good national service when I was looking. So every state pretty much has them, and they offer that service. Now your next code. So this is the industry of your LLC. And I posted a lot of stuff like the last week or two in the community about NAICS, and there's a whole list in there. If you just search for any ICs, you will see that that post come up, and it's got a whole bunch of high risk ones and a whole bunch of low risk ones. So you want to try to to find the most, low risk one that fits what you're going to do with the LLC. And there are, there are a lot of options there, and you can be, you know, even close to it, and get by. But yeah, that's, that's a pretty, pretty easy one. And you can just click here and it'll take you to a search. Where you can search by industry and drill down to you know whatever, whatever you're looking for, and find the actual code. You can see how many you know entities that are already exist under that code. So, okay, now you can start. You can actually file with the state. Like I said, this is different for every state where how and how much it all costs varies from state to state, but it's pretty easy. If you just go to the Secretary of State's website and look at their help. You know they usually have a PDF. It says, here's how you do it, you know, they, they're very accommodating for people who want to start their own business and don't have a lot of funding, and they have to be, you know, that's, that's their job. They're supposed to help every single American if they want to start their own business. So they'll have detailed instructions of what you need to do and what you'll need to you'll need to know ahead of time is the name, like we said, and you'll search for that on the Secretary of State website, and they'll it'll say if it is available or not. You'll need to know a Registered Agent, unless you're going to use, you know your own. And then here's this one, whether it's going to be member managed or manager managed. So what's that? What that means is that the member of the LLC is who actually owns it. So if, if it's an LLC that's just going to be in your name, you're that member. So if you're going to run it, it's going to be all you it would be member managed. If you're going to have someone else run it, or, like, I have a couple of LLCs where my wife is the is the member, and I'm the manager, so ownership, she owns it, but I manage it, so it allows me to do the bank accounts, to get funding to all that stuff. But when it comes right down to it, you know, she, she's the owner of it, but, but it really doesn't matter. When you're married, you pretty much both go on there anyway, but, but, yeah, just a little bit, little bit of tax related stuff. And then the purpose, which is your NAICS code, so you need to have that ready and decided before you start the process. And then, you know, you'll be prompted to also pay whatever the fee is. I know there's some states are hundreds of dollars. So it just depends on on which day, I think probably California is the most expensive that I've heard now. So after you do all of that, you get registered. It usually takes a few days for they them to come back, or week, or couple weeks for the Secretary of State to say, Okay, you're approved. Here's your your articles, and you're ready to go. Your articles are just an official thing with the state seal on it. And it'll say, you know, in good standing, here's the name registered with the state of such and such. There you go. And you want to keep all this stuff together. You'll be asked for that anytime you go to get funding, anytime you start a bank account like they're going to want to want to see and take make copies of all these documents. They want all that stuff. So the next thing is, your your operating agreement. It's not required in a lot of states, but it's, it's good to have if you if anything ever happens, you know, the whole reason, other than funding to have an LLC is you're limiting your liability. So if someone sues you for a business related thing, it's supposed to put up some protection between your personal assets and the business assets and and a good, solid operating agreement is your your first line of defense on that. And then you have to make sure you keep the finances separated between the business and personal you don't want to be using business cards to buy personal stuff and personal cars buy business stuff. You know, you want to keep those worlds separate. If you need to get, you know, buy something with your personal money for the business, then you can do a owner contribution, where you can put money onto the into the business checking and then buy it from there. But you need to keep that stuff separate. So in that operating agreement, it just defines, you know, all the rules, what, what you have going on if you're going to have vote, you know, like, who can vote on what to do? And it's really simple, if you're the only member, if you're the only member, and it's member managed, very simple. So, and I'm going to put one in the community docs. But, yeah, if you go to chat GPT and say, I want to create an operating, operating agreement for an LLC named this in this state, that's member managed I am. Here's the name of the member, here's the date. I mean, it'll, it'll create one that's almost ready to go. You know, you always have to double check AI, but it's that's pretty good. Then your EIN. So your EIN is completely free. And this is what gets me about Taylor brands and some of those premium companies, they charge like $50 to do this, where all you're doing is you're just going on the IRS website and you're saying, Okay, here's the name of my business, here's the state. Give me my EIN, and then I send it to you, like, within an hour. It used to be backed up. It used to take, like, a couple weeks, but the last few times, the last LLC I created, was on Christmas Day, and I got it that night. So because it's all automated, but that's what you need to get your bank accounts. Is that EIN? It's like your your your business's social security number. And it always all the ones that I have. I don't know if it's because of my state, but they all start with nine, nine dash, every one of them, and then long number, then your boi. Now, like I said, this is the state of this is tenuous because they've been challenging this all over, and it's, I think it's getting it was in the Texas Supreme Court the last I heard, it had gotten, you know, knocked down first. But now it's back. It's reinstated. And basically you have to go to the FinCEN website down here by E filing, and all you're doing is put your name your business, and, yeah, I'm the owner. Here's my address, and it's registering it with the government, but I don't think any personal people can go see that list. That's just for the IRS. It's for, you know, criminal justice system, that kind of stuff. And it bothers a lot of people that they can't have the anonymity that they were able to have, like before January 24 but I don't really care. It's just, it's free. They send it, you know, they send you the thing in your email, and then you put it in the rest of your records, and you're fine. So if you don't do it, and this law stays in place, they will fine you up to $500 a day. I believe it is for for not doing it. I don't think they would actually do that. But why take a chance when it takes you three minutes to go on the site, get your document and know you're good? Okay, now we're getting into the nitty gritty. This is after your everything is is set up. You've got your articles back from the state. You're ready to move on to the next. I should have made this darker. It's kind of hard to see. Sorry about that. But your address, so it can be an actual address or a virtual address, but you definitely don't want to use your appeal box or your home address. You want something separate from, from, from your house. You want it to look as professional. As possible. And a lot of people will say, Well, you can't use a virtual mailbox, like I postal or Regis or Alliance or one of those places. That's the service they offer. But that is only true if you're trying to get, like, lines of credit from a bank. You're trying to get, you know, full business loans. They want to see a brick and mortar location, so where you would have to rent out space in, like a co working space or something like that. But if you want a capital stack, and I clear, I made sure I cleared this with my my funding guy. I said, Is this, is this the way it is? And he's like, Yeah, virtual mailboxes are fine for capital stacking. But if they want to go, if after you capital stack and you want to go another round, then you're going to need a brick and mortar if you want to go another round with like physical, like actual loans. So I don't think most people need that. And then if you, if you use the credit stacking to purchase a business, then you have a physical site at that point, right? So, and you're building that that business is credit. And if you need some more to working capital or to expand or whatever, then you have that available to you. So I don't, I don't think you necessarily need it this at this stage, but it just depends on what your goals are. Again, I use, I postal is the one I've been using more than the rest, and it's just so it's staples, like the address is staples, and then you get like another it's like, sweet, whatever, but that's what I do. If you don't want to go out and pick up your business mail, you can have it scanned and they'll send it to you. You can have it forwarded to your address. You can go physically pick it up for free. It's whatever. But I do all that especially to collect rents for tenants that don't want to, you know, use the online stuff. It's great. It's great for that. And, you know, you can get the full service stuff, like Alliance offers a bunch of stuff. They will, you know, they'll forward it to you. That's, I think you can, you can get an email address. You can get all kinds of fanciness. So if you want fancy There you go. But nine bucks a pop. If you want to use the cheapest one for that's for the month. Now, I debated on whether I should even put Dun and Bradstreet in here, because if you know what Dun and Bradstreet is, they're like a business credit. They collect a whole bunch of data on businesses. They specialize in business credit, a lot like Experian, business does, I mean, ever they have like different credit bureaus that their whole job purpose is for business credit. Now, five years ago, what people were doing were getting non PG credit for businesses, right? So they would do, they would do a complex thing where they get net 30 accounts with these different companies. Like, I don't know, I can't remember the name of the companies now, but like, you could get, you get a bunch of toilet paper from one. You can get, like, just paper and batteries. And they would order that kind of stuff from these net 30 accounts and just keep buying it, you know, rotating money in and out of those net 30 accounts, which will get reported to Dun and Bradstreet. And then that would start building your Dun and Bradstreet number. Your DUNS number is what people say. And then you after that, you could start getting some small credit cards with it. You could build it, and you could build it, and you could build it. It was a slow process, but it was not personally guaranteed in any way. It was only on the EIN of the business. And so that meant that if you were dedicated and you built that up, you could then get a pretty good loan, or a card, or several cards, and you could just go crazy with it, and they could never come get you. So obviously, people burnt that up. And, you know, it was people, that's all. People still talk about it like, you can do it and you can't, you can't get big funding through that anymore. You have to personally guarantee you with with capital stacking, like, like we're talking about here tonight. So, yeah, it can't hurt. If you want to sign up, it's free, but you don't have to, okay? And now a logo. I think this is a good one, because it makes you look more legitimate. If you're going to have a website, you know, you need a logo if you're going to go for loans, if you're going to go to a lot of traditional banks and talk to a person, like if you already have a relationship with a local bank and you want to go in there in person and apply for business funding. They're going to look at your website, they're going to look at your email, they're going to look at your address, they're going to look at everything, you know, because that's their job to make sure that if they give you a line of credit, you're legit. So their whole job is to find a way to not give you credit, you know, if they don't think you're on top of things. So it's it's easy. You can go on Fiverr and have somebody make one for you, and or you can just use AI chat GPT is much better than it was even a month ago. I just put one of our options in there. I said, Hey, create a logo for a consulting business called Bright consulting. And there it is, nice little logo. And. It looks professional. Looks like somebody really knew what they were doing. You can't beat that business phone. So this is, this is important too. A lot of people use Google Voice, which is not as good if you if you want to go for rounds of funding, Google Voice is, is free, doesn't cost anything. It's going to be a cell number, and it's flagged by them as a, I forget what it is. It's a VoIP or something, but it's, it's, they just, they know it's a Google Voice cell phone number, a virtual number. So you're better off to go to one of these, where you can get a one 800 number or 1877 because if you have a one 800 number, everybody recognizes that as a business toll free business number, very legit, and actually dial pad. I got this from, from a post. I forget who was, but put that was a good one, and I think it is too I generally use, I think it's, I think it's eVoice is the one that I've been using. I've used freedom voice before, and I've used, if it doesn't really matter if you're not going for funding, Google Voice is great because it's free, but going for funding, you need one of these kind of numbers.

Unknown Speaker  26:17
How much are those per month?

Speaker 2  26:22
$40 $40 per month. And I feel like I'm I'm getting robbed.

Speaker 1  26:26
I think, I think the dial pad is a lot cheaper. Let me see, yeah, it's $15 a month for the standard one on dial pad. But I don't know. I don't know if you have to pay extra for one 800 number. You'd have to check that. But there you go. You try it for 14 days. If you didn't like it, just close it down. Okay? And then this one is the 411 directory. This helps if, if a bank wants to look at your website and wants to find your business to see if it's legit. It's it's like the the old 411 used to be but it's online and it's completely free. You can just list yourself on there and list your business and put your little logo on there and a link to a website if you have one and there, it's just easier to find. It's more of a web presence. Yeah, it's okay, then you can get a business checking account. And you know, the bank that you choose makes a big difference if you're if you're going for funding, you want a national bank, preferably. And one of the, one of the big ones, Bank of America and chase are the two top ones. Where you want to season your checking account, put some money in there, if you can, if you can afford to put 500 or $1,000 in there, or even two, even more than that, it's even better. Just you don't have to put a lot in but you want to, they want to see some money in there, and they want to see it in there for a while. You're establishing a relationship, and that becomes very important when that relationship started. Is money flowing in and out? Does it look like you're creating revenue, like you're selling something, or, you know, services or products or whatever? So money is going in there, and you can just rotate that doesn't have to be anything fancy. You could even set up a Stripe account, and you can use stripe to put the money in there, so it looks like, okay, you're making, you know, e commerce deals, or selling services or whatever. But the the funding experts will, he'll, he'll run you through exactly, you know, what he's going to do with that, how you can also do it. But I know that's part of the process that's an easy one to do. And Chase, I didn't put these in any particular order, because they kind of battle back and forth, but it's hard these days to beat Chase because they, they want to be known as the the main business funding bank in the US. And they, are constantly changing their their offerings. And, you know, the cards that they give, like the perks on them, the no interest periods extend and shorten, just depending on it's constantly changing to get people to use them so, and you can use your local bank if you you know, you probably won't get quite as much funding, but it'll help you if you want to, like, you know, I'm not doing SBA loans anymore. I'm using local bank now because I've used that bank for for quite a while now, and now I get really good rates, and it's really easy for me to get funding because of that. So there's a benefit to that as well. And I'm not saying you can't start both. You can actually, you know, Bank of America a chase checking and there, that's preferable. Just a lot of people don't have the funds to be able to season three accounts at one time, but if you do, that's ideal, because then you're spreading it around. You're establishing relationships with three different banks. And. You can get funding from all three so,

Unknown Speaker  30:03
okay, and then the website

Speaker 1  30:08
not absolutely necessary, but it definitely, definitely helps. And the cheapest one I found is webador. Webador is free. I mean, you can get a free website on webador, and it's, it's pretty good. I mean, it uses a lot of AI

Unknown Speaker  30:26
to create it for you.

Unknown Speaker  30:32
And yeah, now AI powered.

Speaker 3  30:36
Hey, Shane, do you mind if I ask a question really quick, sure, sure. So I'm trying to bridge again. I'm trying to bridge always with this, but I'm trying to bridge on if we're getting an SBA, if this is our first business, would we do this? Is this if we want to establish a business?

Speaker 1  30:55
Well, this, this is for if you need help with the down payment, if you want to do business funding using capital stacking to help with your down payment. That's what this is for, if you're so none of this really matters if you have a down payment ready to go, or you want to save for a down payment, because when you acquire a business, you're going to do a couple of different things. You're either going to assume their business entity. That's That's one option. So they transfer management and membership, the ownership of their entity, essentially, to you and and I'll talk about the pros and cons of that. Like in in a business, you know, one of the business focus classes, but in the second way, you know is you people usually do it is an asset sale. And with an asset sale, you take you list everything that the business has, including its name. It's a goodwill in the community, like all that stuff, it's listed on there. And then your LLC becomes the owner of that. All that's transferred into your LLC. So you don't have to have all this stuff in place in order to do that. You just need it to be registered, have an EIN and be in good standing in the state, to transfer all that over there. So this is mainly just for the business funding for that down payment. That's what this is for. Or if you want to expand later, if you're just looking to have like you can also use this for fix and flips if you you know, rather than get a bridge loan or a fix and flip loan at high interest, you can get no interest for a year and really rock through a fix and flip and, you know, rehab, a burr, whatever you want to do, like, there's once you have funds available to you. So many options open up. The biggest hurdles that we always have is like, I don't have the money right now to acquire this or to do this rehab on this real estate, or whatever it is you're trying to do. So this opens up that door.

Speaker 3  32:51
So I guess the confusing part for me right now is you're saying, like, banks and things would would be researching, but if I didn't own a business, honestly, what? What's my website going to say? Like, hope to buy. I guess that's kind of the thing I'm trying to, like, wrap around my head, because I haven't purchased a business, I've had, I've, like, published a book and things like that, where I've sold and have an LLC for it, but I wouldn't have a whole lot to say on the website beyond, like, a hopeful business maker, you know what? I mean?

Speaker 1  33:20
Sure, sure, and it, you know, and it's more important when it that's why it's optional. It's more important if you're trying to get a business loan from a regular bank, or you want to get a line of credit from a traditional bank, that's where the website comes in, because they're going to do all their their due diligence. So it's, it's not for, for capital stacking,

Speaker 3  33:42
okay, so for, like, the SBA, originally, it's not as important, but once you have it established, and you're trying to get additional I see, okay,

Speaker 1  33:51
yeah, the SBA does not care about, even if you have an LLC, they don't care, okay? They don't care how you're going to acquire it. They just want to know that, personally, you have the funds and that, that it's a good deal. That's what they're looking for, for that. Because if you wanted to, you can just assume the ownership of the one that's already there. They're not interested in those

Speaker 4  34:13
things kind of similar to that. Say, for instance, you're trying to say, Okay, I'm going to get this loan, whether it's SBA, and you put up some of it or whatever. But then you want to say, I think in one of your lives or recordings, you were talking about getting additional money for, like payroll, or giving yourself a salary or whatever. What, what aspect would you use in terms of doing that? Is it still just basically cut or dry, either this way or the SBA way? Or what are the options? Or what do you think the pros and the cons are of each

Speaker 1  34:45
Okay, so if you need additional funding to get you a like a safety net at the beginning of the acquisition, or if you want to draw a salary and you're afraid that there won't be enough funds available to draw a salary, you have two options. And, you know, you can go outside of the SBA and get, get regular business funding a working capital loan from any kind of a bank, even the same bank in, you know, not, not on the LLC loan, or not on the SBA loan, you know. So you can just, I'm going through this bank, I'm getting an SBA loan for $200,000 but I need an additional 50 to cover my expenses, and you're already getting it from this bank, so they're going to want you to get the other part from them too. But it becomes, you know, how good is the deal? What's the debt servicing on it? Whether or not you can put it in with the SBA loan? You know, ideally, that's what you want to do. You want it all together. You don't want to have to get a personal loan. You want to get it through the business, through the SBA. But it's going to require, you know, your DSCR, which is on the spreadsheet analyzer, your DSCR is going to be, have to be a lot higher, because you're going to be adding working capital to it. So if it's still over a 1.25 and it makes sense for them to give you that, and the cash flow of the business will support it. They will do it. They're they're pretty agreeable to it, because one of the hardest things in the transition, and just business, business in general, is a lack capital, you know, a lack of working capital to pay employees, to buy inventory, whatever it is you need. If you don't have that, you're crippled, and they want to see you succeed, and they know that's a part of it,

Speaker 4  36:25
because they're giving you their money too. So it kind of goes back to this question, though. So even if it is your first venture trying to do something, and you've yet to do anything, what would you put because you're now saying, Hey, you do need something on a website to get this extra funding. So what would you put just say, you know, don't, don't, you know, tell on yourself. Say, I hope to do something. But yeah, here's what we're doing.

Speaker 1  36:49
You could keep it, keep it generic, and whatever the industry you're looking in, like if, if it's going to be home service, you could just have it be a website that has information about how to do a rehab. It doesn't even have to sell anything or show anything. It just, it's a website that says, like, Okay, here's what I when I rehab a house. This is what I do if you're going to get do real estate stuff, or if it's you want to get a plumbing business, you could just have links to different random YouTube videos on there that's different fixes for plumbing. And you can, even you can, you can use AI. Let me just show you this. AI is your friend, so never forget that.

Unknown Speaker  37:33
So right here,

Unknown Speaker  37:35
write a blog about

Unknown Speaker  37:40
plumbing issues

Speaker 1  37:43
for homeowners. And there you go. There's your content. You throw some pictures in, and you've got everything you need right there to start. You can just throw in most of the those free websites. You can include a blog on there and you just start posting to it. You don't have to have a lot post five, 610, of these things where you just have an AI, pump this stuff out, and that's a legit website under your business name, you know. And as you as you start building and you figure things out, you can put links on there that take you to different whatever. I mean, it doesn't take much. They just want to check to see if, if you've you're legit enough to have a real website, right? And this, there you go. It's just that easy. It used to be way harder. It's it make your life way easier.

Speaker 5  38:33
Now, can I have a follow up question to the questions? Okay, if,

Unknown Speaker  38:42
I'm purchasing a business,

Speaker 5  38:46
should I be forming an LLC to purchase another business? Or, I mean, can an LLC purchase another LLC? Or, yeah, and

Speaker 1  38:57
you can, you can, but I don't like to do that, because I like to keep the liability separate. So if something happens with one, you're not all the assets from both are not lumped into the same pot. You don't want everything in the same bucket. So if somebody sues you, they sues this business because they're linked together, they can actually get the assets of the other one. You know, you're you're drawing lines of demarcation in between them.

Speaker 5  39:22
So if I understand you, if I'm purchasing somebody's business

Unknown Speaker  39:29
and I decide to

Speaker 5  39:32
keep the name, probably because there's a known name brown in the neighborhood or something, I don't need to form all of this LLC to purchase that correct.

Speaker 1  39:42
You don't have to. It reduces your liability, though. So if you assume their their entity, and so they just basically transfer that business to you, then you also assume their liability. If they have a lawsuit pending, that's your lawsuit now, not the old the. Donor things like that. So there are people that do that. I have done it in the past, and it's been okay. And I know people who have multiple businesses, they don't have any problem with it, but every business attorney that I have ever talked to advises not to do that, and for the reason like so you know you go all the way through your due diligence, your purchase agreement, and it's three days before you sign the paperwork, and somebody slips and falls in the parking lot, and no one's been served papers. There's nothing active going on. You assume ownership of their entity, and then a couple weeks later, you get served papers for a million dollar lawsuit. It's not, you know, it's not likely, but it's very, very possible. And you know, if you just buy it as an asset sale, you still get to keep the name, because you, you you're actually purchasing the name. So it's your LLC, it'd be, you know, patience consulting, and owns all these assets, including that name, and you have a doing business as whatever that old name was. So it's still for the general public, they don't know any different, but you have that layer of protection in between you and whatever happened in the old business. Now you can put in the contract when you transfer ownership of that old LLC or S corp, or whatever it is to that you're not going to be liable for that stuff, but it doesn't matter, a good attorney can blast right through that and still put that liability on you.

Speaker 4  41:28
So yeah, Shane, couldn't you just buy their name, though? Can you just say that's all? I wanted to buy the name for the for the brand recognition. The reason I say that I worked for Caesars Entertainment for a while, and they had a company that no one's really ever heard of came in, and they're really the owner, but everyone knows the masilla as Caesar's.

Speaker 1  41:49
Yeah, I mean, that's, that's what you're doing. You're buying all their equipment. You're buying their every everything. But it's, you know, when it's registered with the state, it's registered as your LLC with doing business as so, so, yeah, I mean, nobody knows any different unless they go searching the Secretary of State site, you know. So you don't even have to announce that ownership has changed. It doesn't get posted anywhere. No one knows. So in that case, what you lose out on those you lose out on the business credit. And if they have a business credit score, all that stuff resets because it's no longer the same EIN. So there's the the disadvantage, so if they're an established business that's been around for 20 years and been paying vendors and has all this stuff built up, and could, you could easily get a line of credit with that old EIN. Now you generally, if you want to get a line of credit early, you'd have to go to the same bank that that business has been at for a long time, and then try to just go off the reputation and the revenue numbers that they had before. And it's up to the person that you've talked to in person be like, whether or not they want to or not. And a big national bank is not going to like a big, you know, with hardcore regulations and things, but like the current one that I'm that I'm probably going to purchase, I say I'm fully decided they've been using the same bank for 30 years, and they all know them, that all those records are there, and I don't think I'm going to have any problem walking into that bank if I need a line of credit on that business's name. And I say, I'm the owner of this, this repair shop that's just right down the road, it's not even half a mile away. I think they're not going to have any problem with it, but that's a local bank. It's not a chain. It's not so. But that's your trade off there, and we'll get into that a lot. I'm actually I'd like to have my attorney come on here and talk to you guys. But I don't think he will. He was gonna charge me 300 bucks an hour. You know, you know how attorneys are, so I don't know if we can do that, but I'm gonna, I'm gonna try to get him in here.

Speaker 5  43:51
So I was just clarifying, is it better than to do a holding company like, I really want to pry into your little privacy like with all these companies you all do? You have all of these filed into your tax system, or they're all filed separately. The LLC belong to Shane, but I know Shane has like, 345, business. So how do you go about all of this?

Speaker 1  44:18
Well, so an LLC goes on your schedule, C, on your personal taxes, on your 1040 so it's a part of your like your personal taxes, whereas an S corp, a C Corp, they're their own taxable entity. They're all they're separate from you, so they file their own tax return. So that's the difference, right there. So they, they pretty much are on their own, S corp, C corps, where the, you know, all the LLCs, they go on my tax return, on my 1040 Yeah,

Speaker 5  44:51
for me to just do a holding company to purchase the business, or stay an LLC, which, which is better, or you want to work.

Speaker 1  44:58
I mean, an LLC can be. A holding company. It's still really, yeah, yeah,

Speaker 6  45:04
can I, can I jump in here? I think I can add value, if that's okay, yeah, absolutely. Okay. So first of all, I'm just gonna a little something there an S Corp is a flow through entity, just like an LLC, right? So it's still file on your personal,

Speaker 1  45:22
okay, yeah, I don't have, I have a C Corp and LLC. That's a It's okay.

Speaker 6  45:25
A C Corp is different. A C Corp and I, I don't, I don't want to try to, like, nerd out on everybody here, but I can go on about this for a while. I just want, oh,

Unknown Speaker  45:33
that's what we're talking about. Yeah, I'm

Speaker 6  45:35
happy to do whatever, all right. I just, I just want you to know that, or anybody watching like an S Corp is a flow through entity, just like an LLC can be, right? So, just, just so we know a C Corp is separate, and that's, I won't even address that. There's a lot there, right? That's, that's where you're really talking but an LLC can be taxed as a C Corp, an S corp, a partnership disregarded, or a flow through rate for to you, right? So with patience, right? When you're talking about, well, I want a holding company, or I want anonymity or privacy, right? I think that what's tough about a lot of this is it just depends on what your goals are, right? Like Shane you're talking about, you don't really care. You use your personal address on some of this stuff. There are some people who don't want that at all. So it just depends on a lot of different things. So I mean, I don't know when we're talking about the way that I was taught and the way that we talked about it at the asset protection law firm that I was at, there's a difference when it comes to income. And if we're buying a business, a lot of this is going to be active income, right? People are actually doing something. I think I saw one of the videos. Someone was evaluating a suit store, a plumbing business. It doesn't matter, right? Not a repair shop. All that's going to be an as far as active income, if we were going to do this from an asset protection or from a law firm standpoint, one of the ways that I was taught was we're going to call that if we're going to own these multiple entities, but we want one entity to kind of manage all that, we're going to call that a management company, and that's specifically for active income. So as an example, if I just use my hand as an example, right? Because this is one of the things that we would do, is if, and this is what Shane was kind of talking about, we want separate. We want our businesses to be separate. If you don't have a business yet, but you want to go through a round of funding, well, you're probably going to want to what's called a management company, and that's going to probably be in whatever state that you live in, or whatever state you're going to buy a business in. There's not a lot of privacy. There's not a lot of anonymity for that at all, for all the reasons that Shane has been talking about for the last hour or so is, people need to know who you are. People need to know who to run the business off of, right? People know who owns Amazon, Jeff Bezos. I mean, like we know that, right? So active is there's not a lot of privacy. There's not a lot of anonymity there. So I just want to make sure people understand that, or know that. Now, if I'm going to separate from a real estate we're going to talk about real estate investing, I think it's just the easiest way to do it, right? So we hit some levels in certain times where we've had multiple flips going on in different places, right? Well, depending on the amount of money we were, the flip is, right? If we're doing something in Detroit or Youngstown, Ohio, right, like, where I'm sitting right now, price is a property, not too high. But if I'm in Southern California, if I'm In Miami, if I'm in, you know, pick another somewhere in New York, Manhattan, right? And we have multi million dollar

Unknown Speaker  49:02
properties, I might want to separate

Speaker 6  49:08
flips with different LLCs. So if I have a management company, I might be calling it, you know, 123, Main Street LLC here that's disregarded or owned by the management company, right? Or if and I have flip number two, you know, four or five, 6b, street, LLC, that's disregarded to my management company. So if I have five flips going on and I have five different entities, I still have the sixth one, right? If I'm doing all those in the same entity and someone slips and falls at one property, well, now everything, like Shane saying, inside of that LLC is exposed, right? So it's like, if I have a firecracker and I'm holding it in my hand and that thing goes off and it explodes, I'm going to, I'm going to be Captain Hook here, you know, a little bit, right? Like, that's, that's not going to be good. However, if I separate the risk and all this is depending on risk tolerance. Right? If a firecracker goes off, my hands open, it's probably going to burn me a little bit, but it's not going to do much damage, right? So if someone slips at 123, Main Street LLC, or I got a contractor who shoots a nail through his foot, ask me how I know if that can happen, right? Well, now I've separated the risk, and so even if something happens here, well, that kind of goes away, and that needs to let it play out, but I can still conduct my other business how I want to do it, right? So if you're going to be the sole owner of everything, if you're looking to get rounds of funding, maybe a management company for active real estate might be really good, just so you know, anything that's active, you're not going to have a lot of anonymity or privacy for all the reasons we've talked about, because you want to get access to capital, right? Is that helpful? Yeah, thank you. You're welcome. Now, I will say real quick, right? And I won't go out because it's the same concept when we start talking about more passive income rental properties, like I don't want my tenants to know how many properties I have where they're all at those types of things we can get into and I can I'm not going to go into this right now, because I want to respect everybody's time and whatever. But there are states that offer privacy for that. There's a certain way that you want that set up. That's where, if you really want anonymity, you're not going to want to set up your LLC by yourself. You're going to want to make sure somebody else does it, that sort of thing, because the moment you use your address, or the moment that you do something even Wyoming, you might hear Wyoming, Delaware, Nevada, whoever files the paperwork, their names on public record. So you might be going to Wyoming as an example, because you heard about all this anonymity you can get there and yada yada yada. But if you file it for yourself, you just threw all that out the door. So yeah, sorry if that was too much, right? Oh, no, that's very helpful. I can help, and I'm happy to do that.

Speaker 1  52:06
No, that's awesome. And, like, there's so much nuance to this, you just have to know what you need, you know, and that's, that's the main thing. What is your objective? You know? What's your what's your endgame? Are right? Now, you know, we're just trying to get funding, so everything needs to be on, on the out, in the open, attached to you, because it's going to be your, your personal guarantee for this funding. But if you know, if you want, if you got multiple businesses already, and you want to structure in a way where you have a holding company and you have all this stuff connected in a way where they're paying each other and moving the money around. There's, there's so many strategies that you can do to limit your risk, maximize your your tax benefits, and like, there are just books and books devoted to this very thing. So it can get very complicated and very complex and quickly. So, I mean, that's that's why, you know, at the end of the day, when, before you actually pull the trigger on a business, you go to an attorney, right? That's because you need to make sure that all the stuff that we've done on our own is ready. Because when real money gets involved and your future and your livelihood and your family's future, you want to make sure that everything is perfect. You know, the account is going to make sure that the lender, to make sure that the lender is going to make sure that, and that attorney is going to make sure that at the end of the day. So, yeah, yeah, that's no, that was great. Dan, thank you. Appreciate that. And I did not know that about the S corp and C Corp difference. I thought they were both, yeah, it's not like I said, most of my stuff is an LLC. Especially, I got a ton of them for real estate, and they work great because it just keeps my personal stuff safe, you know, takes it, takes me from direct connection out of it. You don't have to do that. You can get umbrella insurance, you know, you can do that if you want to accomplish similar things, or you can do both. If you want hardcore protection, you have an LLC for your real estate and Umbrella coverage, so,

Speaker 6  54:07
but yeah, okay, can I throw one other thing out there real quick? Because I'm sure this is going to come up in the recording, or whatever or people are when I, when I used my stupid hand here as the analogy with a holding company or a management company, separate LLCs, by the way, if it's structured correctly, you got that management company or that holding company, and you're the one who owns it. If it's structured the right way, you could have an unlimited amount of LLCs pointing to one, and you only have to file one tax return. You'll need separate checking accounts and ein numbers, all that stuff. But if it all points in the same place that so, like, don't worry about, oh, I got 25 different entities, but if they're all pointing to one thing, it's one time.

Speaker 4  54:55
Yeah, I think the question was more the way I understood it is, she's asking on the front end, if you're. If you have the possibility in the future of doing kind of like Shane is where you're getting all these businesses. Do you in the beginning, either one, start just with an LLC, or two, start with one of these other types of corporations, one of those, one of those types of structures, I think that's what she's really asking. Yeah.

Speaker 1  55:20
Well, I mean, if they already so, if they are already an S corp, there's a reason that they're an S corp. If they're already an LLC, then you're probably okay to keep an LLC.

Speaker 4  55:29
Yeah, I'm saying, I don't think she's asked what, the way I understood it, that makes me want to know. It's like, okay, you, hopefully you can rinse and repeat this success. But are you? Are you safer? Just saying, hey, I want to, I want to go there at some future point by creating the S corp or the C Corp. Or do you just say, hey, you know what? It's too complicated. I don't even know if I'm being successful or not. Let me just do the LLC, because it's easier. I mean, I think it's still back to the same thing. What are you comfortable with? Or what are your what is your goal? I think the goal all of us has said, be free, you know. So however you however you got to do, to do it. That's, I think all of us are willing to pay the price on it. But there's has to be some because even when you were saying the hand thing, Dan, I'm like, okay, still there has to be a a pro as to why you would do this. And there's got to be cons to it. So, yeah, if they're all connected, they all can be damaged to a degree. But if it's so large, it may not matter. You know, you can, you can withstand it. But I think it's just trying to understand what are the pros and cons of each one of those. So you can not have to go back and now start creating some other entity to start funneling them underneath this thing now, right?

Speaker 1  56:45
So patience, did we, I guess the most important thing, Did we answer your question? You feel like you got an answer.

Speaker 5  56:52
I think Kevin got it. Yeah, it was answered. The thing is, I have dabbled into so many things, like, you know, like, I'm, I'm a big time learner, like I was in another class before I came here, and that class is just big on structure. So I kind of, like, know what I want and I know where I'm going, but I just wanted to see what is happening. Because, you know, everybody only knows to the degree of extent of whatever works for their business. People want to be champion for it. Now, this is Shane's word. I want to understand how to succeed in Shane's world, because no other person knows it like you do. So that's why I'm trying to ask this question. Like, Hey, what are you doing in your you know? Yeah, my, my question answered.

Unknown Speaker  57:44
Yeah, okay, okay, cool. I'll

Unknown Speaker  57:49
decide what works best for me, right?

Speaker 1  57:52
Okay, yeah, okay, good in, you know, like I said, we're this is strictly for the purpose of getting funding. The way that we're doing this right now, that's the that's the main goal of this particular LLC, is to be able to do funding rounds so you can get that down payment and the and get plenty and get the right kind of credit to where you have a cushion, to where you you know, if you do it the right way, you can get your down payment and you can Get your working capital if you actually need it all from the cards, if that's what you wanted to do. So, you know, it just doing it the right way. So trying to get you set up to where you have the ability to go to one of these companies and get it done, or you can do it yourself, and then you're ready to get that funding once you find the business that you're like, Okay, it's time. Let's go. Let's take a round of funding. Let's get this down payment, let's get it seasoned. Let's get in due diligence. Let's, you know, you you're ready, you've had all your ducks in a row, and it's just time to go. So that's, that's kind of the purpose of this. And, yeah, business structure is literally, like, a whole semester course. Like, I mean, it's, it's, it's huge. There's so much nuance. There's people that, attorneys that specialize in this, that's their whole career, is all this nuance and that, you know, the tax benefits and the liability benefits and the costs, and, you know, like, there, there's so much, and we'll get there, you know, we'll keep, we'll keep adding stuff to it, and hopefully we can get some, some guest speakers. I'm working on some, some people that I've known for a while. I just a little camera shy. They don't like this kind of stuff, but I'm working on them. So hopefully we can get them here and talk about it in depth, too, but, but, yeah, that's so, I mean, that's, that's what we're talking about here, and it's mainly just to get that funding going. So okay, let's keep going. Thanks.

Speaker 6  59:46
Sorry. Can I jump in one more second here? One more sorry, guys. Because I just, I think, to kind of Kevin your point too, and I wasn't trying to complicate it too much. It really wasn't. But what I'm really hearing you say from it's this. Simplistic standpoint, right? If we set up an LLC, and we're going to call that more of a funding LLC, right? So when we do find another business that we're ready to go, go with however their structure is pretty much what we're going to go by, right? Because, like you said, they're an S Corp for a reason, or they're a C Corp for a reason. So what the kind of the most simplified without over complicating, it is, if we have a funding LLC, that we can go raise 100,000 200,000 whatever it is, and just have that ready to go to be able to fund the down payment. That's to me from again, there's a lot of nuance. I get that that's an LLC disregarded to yourself, that's why I'm

Speaker 4  1:00:44
looking at it. Because, I mean, she asked the question about it, but I was like, That is kind of like what I'm looking at because I have no idea what business I want to get into. However I want to be having the power to make it happen like that. And when everyone says, hey, you need to worry about the structure. You need to worry about naming about naming it correctly, you need to worry about the next number and all that. Okay, it's a management company, and if I'm calling it that, am I still safe to where I'm not wasting my time and wasting my money to get this funding, only to figure out, okay, well, you did it wrong. I think that's the concern with some of us, because I can see how you can say, Hey, why did I, why did I do all this? If I can't do it the way that it's gonna have me this ammunition to just go make it happen?

Speaker 6  1:01:29
Yeah, and so, okay, so just to be clear, like so at the end of the day, the risk is actually really low, because really the only people that are entities that you're going to be lending money to yourself or the ones that you're buying, right? Okay, I just wanted to throw that out there, because we can go into all this and I can get more nuances, but that's about as super,

Speaker 1  1:01:52
yeah, it's super simple business structure, super, super simple strategy to set it up, and you'll see, you'll be shocked if you do it the right way, and how much, how much, how much capital you can get in a short amount of time. It's crazy, but all it takes is one misstep, and it's going to be difficult. And usually it's not going to mean you don't get funded, but it's a difference between 30 grand and 150 grand, right? That, and that's a big deal. So and also, too, if you want to do it yourself, the only thing you're really risking is what you pay for your phone, what you pay for the filing fee and that kind of stuff. But when, when it comes time over funding, and you reach out to the funding company, they're going to double check it before they even start. So it's not like, you're going to, you're going to create this the wrong way. And you're like, Okay, I'm ready. They're, you know, they're going to come back and they're going to say, oh, no, you this. This is lacking in this area. You need to fix this first.

Speaker 4  1:02:53
Or, I think the thing is just like, What you said is, like, Okay, you could have gotten more capital, which can, which can get you to a situation where you could have gotten a better, a better deal. Because some of these, and I think most of us, I know, I'm not, I'm risk averse, in the sense that I don't plan on going out and buying a $2 million company. You know, when you say, hey, you know, get 10% and it's 500,000 maybe, you know, 300 300,000 Okay, that's, that's, that's fine, but I think it's just, you hear all these stories online about the in these courses, where you know you're not gonna get approved for the SBA, you don't have the right kind of credit, or you got too many hard inquiries. So it's just all this noise out there that people are saying it, but there's nuance to it, and you're never able to ask the question. So that's why I like about having this community here, and you've been able to be an asset for that, for those questions,

Speaker 1  1:03:47
yeah, yeah. Danielle, do you have your hand up?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:53
I did.

Speaker 2  1:03:56
I'm trying to. I forgot my question, though it has, oh, okay, so I missed the conversation on capital stacking. I was late coming in. But is there a like, a specific type of capital or funding that we're going after? Is it like credit cards? Is it like

Unknown Speaker  1:04:19
credit or loans, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:04:22
So some of this stuff, you know, I kind of separate what matters for regular capital stacking and what matters for lines of credit and business loans. You need more more legitimacy for a line of credit than you do for a credit card in the business name. So, yeah. So through there I tried to label, when I try to label in this document where it matters and where it doesn't, most of this stuff is that we're talking about tonight is focused on capital stacking, specifically cards that's that's going to you know, because you're getting, you're getting business credit cards that have a year to 18 months of no interest. Right? And you're getting a cluster of them at one time that you can then liquidate through the attorney that's in those documents. And that way you have that available to put into an account. Let it season to get enough where you've got a couple of months of bank statements. So you when you go to actually get your SBA loan or your traditional, whatever kind of loan you're going to get you have. Okay, here's two months bank statement that shows I've had this money in here. You know, it's and ready to deploy. And then you move forward from there. Does that answer your question? Danielle, it did.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:34
I Yeah. I just wish I

Unknown Speaker  1:05:38
didn't miss the capital stacking conversation.

Speaker 1  1:05:41
Oh no, it's recorded. It'll be in the Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:45
Oh, good. Thank you. Yeah, no problem.

Speaker 1  1:05:50
Okay, let's get back to this. Let's run through the rest of this. So business email. You need it. No matter what business email is, you know you're going to be communicating with the banks through your business email. Generally, you need it no matter what. If you're using one of those full service companies, they'll give you a business email, usually as part of the package. When they create your LLC, you can use them to create a domain, your LLC, the website, like all of that in one if you want to tailor brand zinc, authority, doesn't matter what it is, and I usually have templates that you can use and makes it really easy if you want to do it on your own. Name, cheap is a great one. I forget how much Name Cheap is. Let me pull it up real fast, 649, for the year, I believe so. Yeah, $1 a month. You can choose that one to get your own email address. I mean, you can't really beat that, right? And you get a free trial too.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:49
So okay,

Speaker 1  1:06:53
and almost done. And then you just have to make sure in your state that you research what your ongoing obligations are like. For instance, in California, I believe that you have to pay annual fees every year, and and and file reports and all kinds of stuff. I in Missouri, I don't have to do any of that, like 55 bucks one time. It's good until I dissolve it like I don't have to, literally, I do nothing other than that. So there's an advantage you know that you can get in certain states, but, but you need to know what that is, because you want to keep your LLC in good standing, that's very important. Or if you don't need it any longer, you get your funding, you do what you need to do. You pay everything back. You're like, okay, I'm good. You don't want to pay the fees anymore. Then you can go dissolve it at the secret Secretary of State and just be done with it. But, but, yeah, just be sure that you don't, you don't get in arrears with the government. You know, you want to make sure that you always have that certificate. You're, you're always in good standing. You have just You're, you're following all the regulations, and the IRS is happy, the federal government's happy, the state's happy, and lenders are happy. At the end of the day, if you do that, you're you'll be happy, right? So, yeah, okay, we made it through. That was good. There's a lot of good stuff that we got through. And if you have any questions about this, and you start going through this document, you go through the process or whatever. Just, just let me know, post account rather than DM for something like this. If you do have a question about the document, if you post it and that way, I answer it, or somebody else answers it, then it's there forever, right? Everybody can see it. Everybody can search for LLC, whatever, and that information is out there and easily gotten. So anybody have any questions on the LLC stuff before we switch to the mentorship Q and A

Speaker 5  1:08:55
quick question, but it's not the LLC, it's about the nasis code. Okay, did you say we can actually check against the nieces code, if it's a high risk industry, I know about the nurses code. I didn't know we could actually get data on, well, the industries,

Speaker 1  1:09:13
yeah, so I, I got the data and I posted it in there in the community. So there's a, if you look for NAICS, just search in the community forum, you'll see I have, I listed hundreds of high and low risk ones.

Speaker 5  1:09:32
So did you do the homework? Or we could have found out the homework?

Speaker 1  1:09:36
Because, yeah, I did, because of the list I had was. So this is, this is the most updated data that I could find, and what I mean by high risk and low risk is not not the risk of liability or anything like that. It's what the banks look at as the risk of default on funding, right? So if it's a volatile industry that there's a high risk of failure, that means it's. One you want to stay away from when you pick that NAICS code, because that will automatically, you know, everything's an algorithm behind the scenes. Everything's a point system, you know, it gets put into the computer. The computer spits out a number, and that's the funding you get. Based on all these different little factors. Do you have this? Do you have this? You know, what? All that kind of stuff. So, and the way they do the, you know, the capital stacking they're applying for this stuff at like, one in the morning to make sure that it's the algorithm and not a person, because they know that the algorithm is going to choose the same thing every single time a person might look at something and be like, well, let me double check on this and look further where the algorithm they know they've done it tons of times. If they put this in exactly this way, this is the number in the card that you're going to get, and they just repeat that process over and over again. So, but, yeah, that's a great question. But yeah, did you see that? That post? Did you find it patience? What post for the in the ICS code? It's in the community,

Speaker 5  1:11:02
for sure. I have actually not looked today. I've been running around.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:05
Okay, yeah, yeah, no problem.

Speaker 2  1:11:07
Someone also dropped it in the chat down there for you. Oh, cool.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:12
Thank you. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:16
Okay. Did anybody else have a question on the LLC stuff?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:24
No, okay, I have a question.

Speaker 1  1:11:26
Okay, is it on LLC or mentorship?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:31
LLCs, okay? What you got? Millie,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:34
all right, so,

Speaker 7  1:11:38
so I was wondering about the virtual address you were talking about that, because right now I have a registered agent and so I got an address from them. But what's the difference with using a virtual address?

Speaker 1  1:11:52
Well, a registered agent address is different than your business address, so a registered agent address and now you can use the same one, but you generally don't want your just regular business mail going to your registered agent. You know, right, right? Because they're charging you sometimes by piece of mail. You know your registered agent is who is on record, on your your articles with the state as that's that when they when someone looks it up, it'll say, you know, Millie consulting, or whatever, and it's going to have your registered agent, and it'll have their name, their address, and not yours. So a lot of people don't want their, you know, their personal name on that listing, where anybody can find it, and especially we see that oftentimes, is real estate. Like a lot of people want to make sure they're separated on real estate, right?

Speaker 7  1:12:49
Exactly what I'm doing. So they did explain that to me, that they will get all kinds of mail and things like that, and they'll get rid of junk and, you know, scammers and stuff like that, like the legal documents

Unknown Speaker  1:13:02
for me, yeah, my mailbox junk mail, and it's,

Speaker 7  1:13:05
yeah, yeah. I was just wondering, because a lot of, like, investors always tell me, like, oh, just get a virtual address on your own. And I don't even know how to do that, but I guess a lot of people have been using that,

Speaker 1  1:13:16
oh, to get a virtual address. Yeah. It's very straightforward. Like you just you go, click any one of these, and they'll run you through exactly. They just want to know now what you do have, I postal was kind of a pain, because it's going to want you. They want you to verify your actual home address first. So you have to verify, you have to give take. You have to it's got to be notarized. But it can all be done online, but you have to take a picture of like, mail that you've gotten at your physical address. Or you need, like, electric bills, you know, stuff like that. Or you gotta take a picture of your your the deed on your house, if you own your own house, like they want to make sure that you definitely are a citizen living, where you say you're living, and then they will allow you to create as many virtual mailboxes as you

Unknown Speaker  1:14:12
want to. Got it okay, but

Speaker 1  1:14:13
they'll run you through it. It's not too bad. It's It's tedious, but it's only one time, and then you can create multiple boxes as you need them. Once you run through that process and Alliance, but I post, I'm sure they're all the same, because it's about the government regulations on mail, so they're all going to make you do that,

Speaker 7  1:14:32
but they don't get when you have a virtual address, you don't get mail there Correct?

Speaker 1  1:14:37
Oh, no, you do. Yeah, the mail that you're going to get is going to go directly there. Yeah, that's your business address, if you if, when you get funding, you know, you put that address in which you should be putting that in as your as your address, you don't want to put your home address in there, so and you don't have to go there all. The good thing about a virtual address is, you know, you can do that in whatever state you're in. It might be in a different a. City. You don't have to physically go and pick it up. You can use an app on your phone. You can say, okay, scan it for me, send it to me, or discard it. I know this is a junk. This is junk. This is junk. This is junk. Oh, here's a good one. It came from Chase. I need this one, you know. Or you can pick it up in person if you want to. But that's, that's the good thing about the virtual mailbox.

Speaker 7  1:15:22
Okay, so now I think I'm understanding the difference between the register agent address and this, because, like you said, for the register agent, they told me specifically to not use it for any bills or anything. This is just for so for that business to cover my identity, like my my home address and all

Speaker 1  1:15:41
that, yeah, and any legal stuff that comes from the state, yes, yeah, you owe whatever money from your annual filing in California, that kind of stuff is going to go to your Registered Agent.

Speaker 7  1:15:55
Because, right? So the virtual address is something that I will probably want separately, because I will want to also get actual physical mail, but still not use my address. Yes, exactly. That will be the only way, because the register agent won't do that. They won't, you know they want. I can't give that address to open accounts and other stuff so, you know, to send like a statements or insurance payments and stuff like that. Yeah, exactly, exactly, okay, okay, that, no, that makes a lot more sense. Thank you. Shane, yeah, no problem.

Speaker 4  1:16:32
Anybody else I was gonna ask one on funding, you mentioned he locked earlier. Given the, given the two different ways, in terms of stacking with cards or just getting a HELOC, what would you what would you say yourself? Where you would choose just because the lower interest rates?

Speaker 1  1:16:50
Yeah, and it's more out in the open. The SBA and their regulations say you are allowed to use a HELOC to fund your down payment, because they consider that your money, because that's your equity in your home. And they're, they're only going to give you 60 to 80% on the HELOC, you know, depending on where you get it. And they just, they consider that a good, a good use of equity, and it's something that you already own. Whereas, you know, credit is credit, but he lock is like, it's, it's, it's it's collateralized to where you have something backing it, yeah, yeah. So it's, I think I would consider that less risky. Capital stacking is what you do if, if you don't have another option, you know, it's, it's more risky. It takes more time you put yourself and because when you do liquidate the cards, you're on a time clock. You know, you liquidate those cards you have, you have to pay that minimum payment on the ones that you liquidate, and you have your year of no interest. So you want to, you want to really hit the ground running when it comes time for this, like, I have a business ready, I know I need this much. Let's go. And just because you can get 150,000 in funding doesn't mean you should. If you only need 30,000 35,000 then, you know, you tell them, Oh, I only want enough where I can liquidate 30,000 to do this. I don't you know, but it just depends on you if you also want to have working capital with the cards too. But just because it's possible doesn't mean it's the best option.

Speaker 4  1:18:21
One question too. That's kind of nuanced about it. I've seen when they talk, when people talk about the SBA, I always seem to run across something that says, basically, if you can't get funding some other way, that's when they that's when you can use the SBA.

Speaker 1  1:18:36
Yeah, yeah. The SBA is a lot like the FHA, where their whole job is to make sure that businesses are bought, sold and start, started by regular people. You know, if you're going to go get a home, you and you are doing well, and you bring a large down payment, you're not getting an FHA loan. There's no reason to get an FHA loan. You you have a down payment. You know, you're not going to pay PMI, all that kind of stuff, because you're doing it like that. It's the same thing with the SBA. That's why the interest is higher. You know, it's riskier for them. You know, that's why I'm able to that's why you move away from it too, though.

Speaker 4  1:19:11
I mean, you end up getting it building up the the stacks or whatever, and you just say, Okay, now I don't have the reason to go, because I think I could come up with the with the 10 or 20% through a HELOC, but not this whole big, big amount to just buy it outright.

Speaker 1  1:19:26
Oh, yeah. And you I would even if I could. I wouldn't want to do that. I would want to go to a bank because, you know, I would not want to buy a whole business on credit cards, right, right, you know, I mean, there's, there's a reason, there's a time, and you can accelerate your your your entry point. But you have to know what you're doing. And that's like, you know, I've seen multiple people try to do it on their own, and they come back and they're like, Man, my credits a, it's a 560, now, I screwed up. I got my LLC is thrashed like I messed up. I should have never done. It, and then, then you're, you have, you're fighting an uphill battle. So, yeah, yeah, there's a it's definitely doable. It's definitely possible. I know a lot of people who have done it and done it successfully. Then I've also seen people who have done it prematurely, and they have all this credit sitting there, and they never use it. So they pay the company, right? You do it for them. They get all this capital available to them, and they never do anything. They never they never find a business, they never purchase one, and they're just out that 10% or whatever it was they paid so

Unknown Speaker  1:20:35
you it's a balancing act for sure. Appreciate it, yeah, yeah, no problem.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:42
All right, let me

Unknown Speaker  1:20:48
stop this and stop the recording.
