Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is the money Language Academy. Tonight we're going to talk about the burr strategy. So it's something, it's it's like one of the most popular strategies in real estate. And you know, we talk a lot about acquiring businesses and vetting businesses and all that stuff. But at the end of the day, we're trying to become well rounded investors, you know, not savers, not spenders, but investors. And the burst strategy is a great way to get into real estate and recycle your down payment. You know, you you get the down payment from whatever source, and you just essentially move that down payment and that initial start money to from property to property. It's an easy way, well, not easy, I won't say that, but it's a a smart way to recycle and to scale quickly into properties that you otherwise wouldn't be able to do. And there are countless courses out there. There's people that, you know, they have a mentorship for a year to learn this stuff. There's books, there's podcasts. I mean, there's no shortage of information out there about the birth strategy. But I kind of wanted to take you through a little bit of the, some of the stuff that I've learned, and some of the, some of the tools that I found that help out a lot because, and I don't know how long they're going to be good for, because this year, you know, with all the tariffs and everything, all the change that's going on right now, who knows what materials are going to cost. And, you know, I have some some sheets out there to help estimate rehab costs. And I don't know if that how long those that's going to be good for, but it's a good starting point, if, if nothing else. So okay, so let's get into it. So the burr method, it stands for, buy, rehab, rent, refinance, repeat, and it's really powerful, right? So you buy a place with the you buy something that's run down, that needs a lot of rehab, rehab that's not, you know, within a certain range of costs, obviously. And you rehab it, you put a renter in there, and then you come back, you get it appraised, and you refinance it at a higher value. And if you do it the right way, you can pull your down payment back out, and at the end of it, you get all the money back that you put into it, and you can move that money to another property, and what you have is a renter there that's paying the mortgage, that is giving you a certain amount of cash flow. And you just continue to do that over and over and over and over again. So you don't have to save for another down payment. You don't have to go get another round of funding for a down payment. You just move that. And now in in theory, that's great, but it's very difficult in practice. So we're going to kind of break down each of the steps, and then at the end, we'll go over the little tools. And I would like to I found a property. We can just see if that property is a good deal together. Plug it into the analyzer, look at the numbers, see where it gets us. And it's a live property that I just I searched for all of like two minutes and found it. I think it's in Alabama or no, it's in Kansas City. That's where it's at. So burr works because you get that initial down payment. You you add value because you're rehabbing, so you're adding equity really fast. So you put, say, the property is worth 100,000 you know, and you put 20,000 down on it, and then after you rehab, it's worth 200 you automatically increase the equity that you have, because you own, you know, 20% of that. And you only owe whatever you know, that $80,000 on it. But now it's worth 200 so the difference between that, that 80,000 and the 200 that's you, you own that. So it's builds equity fast, and then you can also create cash flow when you put a renter in there. So not only is the renter paying down your debt, but they're going to give you a little bit of cash flow. Now, in this economy with these valuations and the interest rates, although the interest rates continue continue to drop, they keep going down. You know, with all this volatility in the stock market, like it's been trending down consistently, and then you can scale efficiently and quickly, so you don't have to come up with that down payment over and over and over again. You're just using the same money, recycling it through. So you have to decide if you're ready for the burr. So it's not something that's hands off. It's not something that you can just buy and rely on other people, like you're going to have to be there. I would not recommend doing a burr from a different state until you have like, a team in place that you can trust. Because. You know, contractors, realtors, just everybody in property managers and from a different state that you're in, or just licking their chomps waiting for someone from out of state that has a lot of money to burn to just start throwing money at them. You know, you just, in my opinion, I just, I don't, would not be comfortable doing that in a different state, unless you're seasoned and you've been doing it for a while, because then, you know what the costs are. You know how long things take. You know, you basically you won't fall for any of their tactics and any of the baloney that happens. And then you gotta decide, you know, obviously everybody wants to build long term wealth. That was a dumb one for me to put in there. Who doesn't want long term wealth, you know. But are you comfortable with managing the contractors? Because I'm gonna talk about this a little bit later. You cannot trust contractors. Contractors are not to be trusted. I mean, it's it's proven time and time again. Now, not all of them, just 99.9% of them, and that's just it is the sad truth. But it's so hard to find a good one, and when you do find a good one, they're usually much more expensive, or they're so booked out that you can't even get them to do the work that you need done. So you're constantly moving contractors in and out. You got to be breathing, you know, down their neck to make sure they're doing what they're supposed to do, and they're not loafing around like so much. So you have to be comfortable with that management. And then also, you know you're going to have a renter in place. You either have to be able to have a property manager or you're going to manage it yourself. So you have to be you have to know what your level of comfort is with dealing with people, dealing with tenants and dealing with problems, because inevitably, problems are going to come up that you're going to have to solve in the strategy. It just happens.

Unknown Speaker  06:50
So now, as far as the property,

Speaker 1  06:53
obviously, you're looking for something below market value, something that's been on the market for a while, something that needs some work. You know, it's not going to be the prettiest house on the block. It's going to be, ideally, in a decent neighborhood, but it's the worst house in that neighborhood, you know, it's the one that's grown up. It's the one that possibly, you know, somebody died in last year, and they're, you know, somebody inherited it, and they don't want to deal with it, so they just want to offload it. At that point, they're, they're just tired of realtors and tired of viewings and all that stuff. So, but at the same time, you know, you don't want the big issues. You want cosmetic issues. You don't want foundation repair. You don't want huge like full electrical and and plumbing, you know, redos, like, complete, you know, like some of these old places, like, say it was, I don't know if it was in the early 1900s then, you know, you've got the knob and tube that, that electrical all that has to be stripped out, and you have to replace that. If it's, I think it's, if it's before 1970 or before 1980 it might be aluminum wiring. And then most insurance companies are either going to charge you twice as much to insure it because it's aluminum, or some of them won't even insure it at all because it's it's highly prone to fires, so all that has to be taken out on and I mean, you're talking about electricians, it's just it adds up. So you got to know what you're getting into and be able to evaluate that. And you want to in areas that the rent is growing. You don't want a dying part of the city that's that it's in. Hopefully there's new jobs coming in, there's a factory, like all that stuff you can research. So the fun part funding. So there's a lot of different ways you can do it. Obviously, you can use your own money. If you're sitting on a stack of cash, then you don't have to worry about anything. You can use your own money, recycle it, finance your own rehabs, do all that stuff. Hard Money is probably the the one that most people use, and the terms hard money and private money. People get those, you know, they try, they interchange them, and they're very different. So what makes a hard money loan hard? What makes it a hard money loan is the it's based on a hard asset. So it's based on the property itself, whereas private money is based on the property and on your personal credit score, your history of rehabs, like all that stuff. Now that doesn't mean that the hard money lender doesn't want to know if you've already ever done this before, but they see deals come across their desk all the time, and they're going to base it off of you know, they know what the house is worth. They know where it can be. They've got all the tools, they've got all the data, and they know if it's going to be a good deal, and if there's enough margin in there that you can pay them back, you know that's more important to them than your credit score. A lot of times, they won't even pull your credit or they'll want, like, like, low sixes. Sometimes, like, it's not even that big of a deal. They. But it comes with really high interest. It comes with high loan fees. And so what, what they'll do is they'll finance like 90% of the purchase. So you put 10% down, and then they'll finance 100% of the rehab generally. And then, so maybe you're rehabbing for 90 to 90 days to 180 days, and you're going to pay interest only every month on that loan. So if you get $100,000 you're paying 10% interest, right? You're going to pay $10,000 it would be 10,000 for the year, divided by however many you know, divided by 12 times however many months, right? So if it's say, just to make it easy, if it's 12,000 interest for for the year. And you have it for six months, you're going to pay 6006 interest payments of $1,000 a month before you get that done. And a lot of times they want periodic updates. They want to they want to see the rehab as it happens, you know, because they might not give you all of the rehab money up front. They want to see, you know, benchmarks reached before they just, you know, they could give you a huge check on a big property, and you're just gone. You go to Mexico, you're whatever you just, you skip town and that you never heard or seen from again. So they have to protect themselves. Private Money is similar to that, but they want your they want your W twos. They want your history of rehabs. They want you know your tax returns. It's almost like the same things you're going to do from a traditional bank. They they base it not just on the asset itself, but on you as well. And the interest is usually lower than hard money. And if you build a relationship with a private money lender, you can actually get really good rates, you know, but they generally, a private money lender is not going to fund someone who's never done it before. They want to know that you at least, at least have some investment properties, you have some kind of history doing this. So that's that's why a lot of people start with the hard money, and then obviously you have the bank rehab loans. They've got all different kinds of packages, fix and flip loans. I've got bridge loans. I've got all these different things that help you buy the property, fix it up, and then, you know, you can refinance it later with them. And what a bank will do is a bank will say, Okay, we'll give you a favorable fix and flip loan, but we're going to force you, when you do refinance that you have to refinance with us. You know, that'll be part of the deal because they want, they want that long term money. That's where they, you know, stretched out 30 years. That's where the bank's making their highest profit margin. These these smaller loans. It's not as big a deal. But you know, if you look at the numbers on a mortgage that spread out 30 years, you're paying like three times, you know what that is actually worth. So that's huge for them. Sometimes more it just depends. Same thing. They want, periodic updates. Sometimes they will send their own, like analyst out there, somebody that's familiar with construction, that worked for the bank, and they'll come out there and look, they want to see okay, we finished the plumbing, we finished the electrical, and they'll come out and they'll check it out. Okay, you can get the next check to finance the next tier of rehabs, and it's kind of a pain, but that's, I don't know, you just, you know, it's their money. You got to jump through their hoops, and then you got capital stacking, which, you know, risky. It costs money up front. But once you have it, you can do whatever you want to with it. So it can be, can be really good. Nobody's breathing over your shoulder. But at the same time, if, just like all of these, if it doesn't appraise for what you think it's going to after you do the rehab, you're in trouble. Somebody has to pay that stuff back. And every one of these different lenders or the credit cards, they're coming after you. They're not coming after some phantom business like you have. You've personally guaranteed all these at the end of the day. You know they're going to seize the house, of course, but whatever is left over that's coming out of your pocket.

Unknown Speaker  14:07
Okay, so now, when we talk about deal analysis,

Speaker 1  14:11
these are the these are things that you have to look for. Number one is the ARV. That's the after repair value. And some listings will have that ARV listed in there, where they get these numbers, I don't know most of the time they're not correct. You have to research it yourself. If you're if you're not familiar with the area, I would suggest that a good, seasoned Realtor in that area can help you out. A ton like they know what things are worth like right now, if you want to sell your house, you have an idea. You can go analyze everything, you know, all the tools online. You can go to prop streaming, or prop wire, all these places that will say, Okay, this is what your house is worth. But at the end of the day, it's only worth what somebody will pay for it, and the realtor knows better than anybody what what it's going to be worth after you do all that stuff. So, you know, that's, that's where you're building your team. So if you can find that person that's really good, it will, it will save you, one, getting into a bad deal, you know, and two, from undervaluing you might have, it might be a really diamond in the rough, and you're listing it for 25 less than it should be, you're missing out on a big chunk of change. So either way, a really good realtor that is familiar with the process that can that can say that can one take you to maybe a pocket listing that they have on the side, or, you know, something that just came on the market, take you to it, and you can grab it quick, before anybody even knows about it, and then can help you along the way to know what it can be worth. And they can also help you with, you know, what kind of things are going to make it worth more? You know, is it just, you know, do you want to put granite countertops, or is, is courts, or just some of the, you know, fancier looking stuff that might be cheaper, like, what are buyers looking for right now? Because it's right now, it's it's a buyer's market. There's a lot of stuff that is sitting on the market for a lot longer than it used to. So you have to do all the right things to get the right buyer in there. You have to be able to analyze the cash flow. So after you get it, after you rehab it, what's it going to rent for? That's another thing you have to know. Because if it's not going to rent for high enough to pay that mortgage payment after you refinance, it's not going to work, right? You have to have, you have to add value, get a tenant in there that's going to pay enough to pay all the expenses, pay the mortgage, pay the the insurance. You know, whatever, all that stuff that you're you're on the hook for when you're a landlord, and also give you a little bit of cash flow. So how you determine your the price that you're going to pay for this when you're when you're negotiating for that rundown property, is the 70% rule. Now I usually, I'll flub it, and I'll put 65 because I'm, I'm conservative and like, I don't things happen when you're rehabbing. And you, you know, you start pulling up floors and, you know, you think, oh, all I gotta do is I gotta put some LVP in here, and it's good. And you pull up that old linoleum and it's all rotted, and you gotta put new sub floors in. I mean, there's just, there's things that come up. You can't see everything when you go through it. I don't care if you're you take the best contract in the world with you. There's just things that you don't know until you start stripping it out. So I would prefer to do like 65 but so you take that ARV. It's 70% of that ARV, minus the repairs is the most you should ever pay for that property. Okay, so say it's they're asking. We'll say the ARV is 100,000 so 70,000 of that, and you think the repairs are going to be about 30,000 then 40,000 is your max? You not a dime over. Okay, so that's that 70% rule, and it's, it's a lot like the

Unknown Speaker  18:09
number again, I'm sorry,

Speaker 1  18:13
yeah, yeah for the 70% rule, sure. So let's, let's put it in the calculator that might help. Okay, so say we have a property that they're asked that the ARV is, let's, let's give an actual let's say it's 165 that's what we believe the ARV is on this. And we're going to use the 70% rule. So we're going to, we're going to multiply it by point seven, which gives us 70% of 165 right? So 115 and we estimate that the repairs are going to cost $35,000 that means that the most the absolute top dollar we would ever consider paying for that would be 80,500 we wouldn't pay one penny more than that. And the closer you are to that number, the riskier it is. If you can get that, you know, you can get that property for 70, for 65 for you know. And there are opportunities out there, if you find the right one, where you could get something like this for even 50. But you got to look hard, and you gotta, you gotta know what the rehab costs are going to be, because if you think about it, what if it costs 45,000 to rehab that you know you're in trouble, you know. So those kind of things become key, but that that's how that 70% rule works. Did you get Are you cool with that patience? You got it? Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. No problem. No problem. Okay, cool. So how do you budget for that rehab? That's the big unknown. If you're if you're just getting into this for the first time, hopefully, you know a contractor, or, you know a lot, I hear a lot of people say, Well, my dad was in construction for. Or, you know, 2530 years, and now he's retired, and he knows all this stuff just great, but he also knows what materials cost in 2005 you know, it doesn't necessarily know what materials cost now, like, things have changed so much in the last and it's just gotten outrageous, so, but he'll be able to say, You know what needs fixed, what doesn't need fixed? How to fix things like all that kind of stuff. And so you're going to, you're going to need a scope of work. So I put this template in here. Do I have that? I think I have it somewhere. We'll, we'll get to that here in a second, but I'll show you what that looks like. But basically it's just a breakdown of room by room what needs to be done for that rehab. So you go through there, you have that paper on a clipboard with a contractor, and you're saying, Okay, in this room, it needs the all the flooring stripped out, all the baseboards. It needs new LVP. It needs new carpet. It needs painted. It needs it get rid of this popcorn ceiling, put new ceiling fan like whatever it is that it needs. To rehab it every single room, room by room by room by room by room. So at the end of that, you guys agree, okay, this is what I'm asking for, and you you can give a copy of it to the contractor. The contractor will take it back, and he'll give you a bid. And you need to get at least two to three bids. And I don't ever pick the cheapest one. There's a reason why. Then they're cheapest. Generally, I don't pick the most expensive one. But if I can find Google reviews, if I can get a referral from somebody that's used them, if it's a new one, I have, like, a list locally of the ones that I will not use, the ones that I know I've heard horror stories from, like and I every time I'm talking to another investor, I'm like, don't use these people, even if I haven't used them, because I know someone that I trust that had a really bad experience, and it just happened so much, they'll take some of your money, and they'll just won't do anything. And then when you go to court, and two years later, you get maybe something or nothing, but it's like it's too late. By that point, your deals screwed. You didn't make any money, and like that kind of so you have to be very, very, very careful. So the cheapest isn't always the best. And if you on your first one, whatever you think that budget is going to be even the bid that they they give you. It cannot hurt to add another 25% on top of it, just to be safe, right? Because you want to protect your investment at least 10% because something else is going to come up, something's going to happen that you don't see and that they don't see. And then there's a spreadsheet in here too. I'll go through these at the end, where it breaks down the prices for things like, here's what you know, flooring in the living room about this size would cost. Here's what a new roof costs. Here's what a new bathroom of this size costs. Like, and it's, it's pretty up to date. It's from toward the end of 24 I think so hopefully that that'll help giving you give you a starting point, after you get that scope of work, you can say, Okay, here's about what it should cost, and you can compare that with what the contractor says it's going to cost. Obviously they're going to factor labor into it and all that stuff, but that should also be included in the rehab pricing. So if they're way off, it's a red flag. And like I said before, don't trust contractors. Terrible. They're terrible. Like, trust one that you've used before and you've had a good experience with that's cool, but like coming into it fresh, cannot be trusted. So don't give them all the money upfront. Use, use milestones where, okay, we know that these are the big, maybe five phases in this project. The first one is demo. You get all the demo done. You get a check the next and it coincides with with your loan package too, you know, because the lender wants to see that too. They want to see those benchmarks so you can, you can even blame it on your lender. Even if you're using your own money. It doesn't matter. Like, if, like, oh, you know, if you don't want them to think you're a stickler, I personally don't care, because, you know, there's somebody that I'm paying to do a job and they're getting paid well. But if you don't want to deal with that hassle and have them, you know, pushing your buttons all the time, you say, Well, this is what the lender wants. They want. They're not going to give me money until you finish this, you finish this, you finish this, and I don't get paid. You don't get paid. Just kind of it kind of puts them into a schedule of getting that stuff done. So that's a good way to do it. You know, demo roof flooring, like, whatever your big stuff is, and then those milestones, because if you give them a big check up front, they don't have as much incentive to get things done quickly. But if they're if their workers and employees need to get paid when they finish it, they're going to put a little bit more effort into it and written contract. If they don't offer you that written contract, make one. Up and they should have some sort of contract. I mean, it's, it's, I mean, if they're a professional contractor, they should offer you a contract, but always have a written contract with the scope of work included, that has everything that you've already asked for and that they gave you the quote for all that stuff goes into it. Regular site visits show up all the time. Like, that's why the whole out of state thing, until you know you can trust the contractor, I wouldn't do it. Like, just a couple times, two, three times a week. Just show up and be like, what's going on? Not making good progress, something wrong. What have you found? Whatever. Call them daily. You know, just see what. See what's going on. You want to ask them if they have proper insurance for for them and their subcontractors as well, because you own that place, if something happens on your property and they don't like, you know, because there's a lot of machinery, there's a lot of things that that fall over collapse. I mean, it's just a it's a dangerous workplace, and you don't want to be liable for that stuff. They should have enough insurance to cover them and their subcontractors. And usually, what they'll do is they'll give you, it'll be printed straight from their insurance company for your particular job. For that job, it'll say, this is the it'll be the particulars of it's almost like a certificate that they give you, certificate of insurance, basically, like, I have this much insurance and, yeah, okay, sorry, Millie, I didn't see you in the waiting room, so, yeah, I asked for their insurance and make sure that they get the permits. You know that that was factored into it, that that's in the scope of work, because if you get halfway through a job, or almost done with the job, and they've done a bunch of stuff without getting the proper permits, and an inspector comes in there and so and they didn't do what they were supposed to do, you know, you're screwed. Your your whole timeline is ruined. You got to go deal with the city you gotta, or the county, or whatever. And that's all stuff that they should be handling for you. You should not have to worry about any of that stuff. That's part of their job. Okay? And so the rehab is done. Now it's time to put a renter in there. It's, it seems easy, like, Okay, this is, this is probably what the rents gonna be. But it's not as easy as you think to set that rent correct, because you need it rented quickly, you know, so you gotta, you gotta skirt that line of having it, you know, fair in the market, but at the same time, you know, not too high where no one's going to want it, or it's going to take you months to get somebody in there. And if you did the right thing, it's in a market that's growing and there's a lot of renters and stuff, but these tools will help you rent a meter. That's one. It's a paid tool, though. And bigger pockets, like I all my real estate stuff, I've been a bigger pockets pro member for a very long time, and it's great because it allows me to use their analyzing tools that are built into it. But it does cost 40 bucks a month, but it gives me all their analyzing tools. It gives me access to rent ready. Which rent ready is a tenant portal. It's, you know, where tenants can pay online, like it's a full, full service suite. So if you're, if you have rentals, if you're in that already, I think it's definitely worth investing in that pro membership, at least for me. And it's fully tax deductible, you know, that $40 that you pay every single month and then. So what I love about rent ready is it has tenant screening in, like inside the app. So that means that if somebody fills out an application to that single family home that you just rehabbed, it will give you a full credit report on them. It will give you a criminal history, like a full background if they've ever been evicted, and it even connects to their bank accounts to show proof of income. So you can it'll verify that they get this amount paid to them every two weeks, or whatever. Like, all that stuff is broken down for you, so you know what their credit score is, what their history is. Can they afford the apartment, all that stuff, because it's a nightmare if you get somebody in there and they can't, you know, they might be good people, but they've stretched themselves too thin. They can't pay for it. So you can prevent that stuff during the screening process to get a good long term tenant in there, and then you need a solid lease. I was going to put a example lease in the community, but I decided not to, because every state is so different. My my advice there would be if you go on bigger pockets, I don't, I don't think you have to have a paid subscription for for this, but they have example leases that are compliant for all 50 states. So just go to the state that you're looking. Four, and you can download that example lease, and then you can use it. It's in there. I forget what it's where, where it is in there. And I don't know if you have to be a pro member, but I know that they're in there. So whatever state you're in that'll help you. So you get to the end of it, and you have to decide, okay, I've got it listed. This is how much money I'm paying per month on this interest or this hard money loan or whatever. I have a decision to make. Did my rehab come out the way I thought it was going to

Unknown Speaker  30:36
do? I have interested tenants.

Speaker 1  30:39
Is it? Do I think it's going to appraise for what I thought it was? What happened in the three to six months that I've been rehabbing this? What happened to the market? Did it start going down to where people aren't buying? Did it start going up, like all that kind of stuff, right? All factors into it. But you have to reassess after that, that rehab, and decide, okay, am I going to be able to rent it for the right amount? If I am, okay, I can do this. I can do this whole birth thing. I'm going to refinance. I'm going to repeat, sometimes you got it, you just pull the cord and be like, No, this is not working out. I got to sell it and just just move on, right and try to get your down payment back. That way, you just never know what's going to happen. So it's not all this is this is like, your your make or break moment, like, okay, is this a burr, or was this actually a flip? And you just your numbers will tell you what that that's going to be. And then you know, how are you going to manage your tenants? Are you going to pay a property management company? Management company that's going to cut into your your profits? Are you comfortable with doing all that stuff on your own now the software does make it way easier. It collects the rent. You don't have to deal with all that stuff. You can actually like for with rent ready, they have a handyman services built in. So if you want to automate. Anytime a tenant says, Hey, I don't know the toilet won't flush, or something like that. You know, they'll send a handyman out there for you, but cost more money to get that kind of coverage. If you're handy yourself and you can deal with it, you don't mind going over there, okay, like I have, I've never had, even in the property management company. I've never had that late night, 2am Oh, there's, you know, whatever. There's water everywhere kind of thing. What I have had is we've had an eviction, and the deputy sheriff called me at like midnight. It's like, hey, somebody kicked the door in on this place. And I guess the tenant had left some stuff there and kicked the door off the hinges, and somebody called the police, like that kind of stuff. I have had that, so that was just on one of my rentals. But just just know what you're getting into, and you got to decide if you're ready for that, or if you want to hire somebody to take care of those things for you. Now the refi process. So we talked about buy, we talked about rehab, we talked about rent, and now we're on refi, so the third R so what we're talking about is a cash out refi, because you want to get your down payment back. So if you've used the 70% rule and your rehab didn't go over, you should be able to pull your down payment out and go on to the next property. And if you rented it in the right way, and it's in the right neighborhood, the tenant's paying that mortgage, the tenant is giving you a little bit of cash flow as well, and you ended up with your same money back. And you own a property with a good tenant in there. Ideally, that's like, that's, that's your home run burr scenario, right? And then you can just move on to the next one. So on the cash out refi, it becomes very important, when you're getting your original loan from whatever bank that you see what kind of seasoning period they had on the money that they gave you, whether it was the purchase or the you know, generally, they, you know, rehab loans, they they don't have that seasoning period, but that purchase, they can, and you'll see it on DSCR loans. You'll see it on regular bank loans. They might have a six month seasoning period where you can't refinance for six months, like they'll or with a DSCR, they'll have a prepayment penalty, where you have to pay a big fine, essentially a big fee, in order to refinance it. So be sure that you get the right loan vehicle to begin with, with the idea of, I'm going to refinance. So when you talk to a like, whether it's a broker, a hard money person, whatever, like here, tell them what you're going to do. I'm planning on doing a bird. And everybody knows what exactly what it is. They'll explain it better than me, because that's what they they do all day, every day, is talk about this stuff and crunch numbers. So just, just allow them to tell you. What their rules are, and but you don't want to get to this process, and you didn't consider something, and now you got to sit on the property for another 90 days just to get through the seasoning period, something like that, and then LTV. So you're not going to be able to refinance and get out, you know. So if, say, You're it's appraised at 200 you're not going to refinance and get 200 you know, you're only going to get like 80% loan to value. So if it refinances for, or if it appraises for 200,000 you're going to be able to pull out 160,000 Right? Which is 80,080% of 200,000 so that's kind of how that goes. And the appraisal itself, prep for it, stage, stage, the house. Make sure the outside and inside look good. There's a little bit of landscaping. But if it doesn't appraise with quite what you think it's going to appraise for, you can appeal it. And it's very possible to appeal it. You can go to a different company, you can ask for a different company, but you have to pay for it. You know you're paying for the appraisal. It's not anybody else, it's not the bank, it's you. But it is possible for you to appeal if you don't get that right one the first time, but if you didn't get the right one the first time, it's a bad sign. So the main pitfalls and mistakes are the number one things under estimating how much the rehab is going to be. You know, if you buy a property with a thought, that's going to be $25,000 rehab, and it's 50, you're in trouble. You know, there's, there's all your money back. Now you might still work as a rental, and it just becomes an investment, a standard investment, and not a burr. But you can't pull your money back and scale like you can with the Burr and over leveraging. You know, we're talking about

Unknown Speaker  36:48
you. So say it takes longer to

Speaker 1  36:52
to get the rehab done. It's not necessarily costing more, it's just taking more time. Well, every month is that interest payment? You know, you have to pay that down. You You have to worry about your debt to income. You have to worry about insurance. Through that, that whole process, you have to have insurance on that, because the lender requires that you have insurance. Because what if there's a fire and the whole thing's destroyed like you don't want to get in over your head. You have to crunch all these numbers and then poor record keeping how much everything costs. You want a record of all that for your taxes. You want to a record of all that for the next time that you do a rehab. You want to know keep good records of what worked and what didn't work. So, okay, we put in Korea, countertops instead of granite, and seemed to work. They were way cheaper, you know, things like that. Like, like, just tricks of the trade after you get good with this stuff. So that also was like, just, just keep a record of everything, what works and what doesn't work, how long things took, how much the materials were like. Update that spreadsheet on your own so you know the next time you get into it. Okay, I know, because last time it said it was going to cost $1,000 but I know it actually cost 1500 so that kind of stuff. And then recycle and repeat, right? We're at the last R so if you did it the right way, you're going to be able to pull with your cash out refi, pull your down payment back, maybe even a little bit more if you found a really good deal and do the next one, you start looking for another property immediately. You just keep keep doing it, and keep doing it. You want to build systems, you know, like the proper way to do a scope of work, like I was saying, update your materials, and know what you're good at. Know, the kind of rehab that you want to do? Is it a full you're going to gut the whole entire house, all the way down to, you know, it's bare bones and the studs and you're going to redo it, or is it just something that needs some flooring and some paint, some windows, something like that? And that's your wheelhouse. You know, everybody's got their different thing. And then finally, your team, this is probably the most important thing. This is why a private money lender will, you know, start messing with you and giving you money after you've done that first one, because you have a contractor that maybe you you trust at this point. Hopefully you've got a realtor, you know, and you can, you've got a track record. You're not coming into this blindly. It's just like everything else, whether it's buying a business, whether it's buying an investment property, going from zero to one is a huge, huge learning curve, but going from one to two, two to three, it's not so much because you've already, you know, drank from the fire hose of information, like, and that's what it's like. Like, it's just this stuff, just coming at you quickly, and you have to be able to learn. It into adapt.

Unknown Speaker  40:02
Okay, so let's, let's go through the tools,

Unknown Speaker  40:08
and we'll just, we'll, we'll try to do a

Speaker 1  40:12
little bit of analysis. So the first one, and I put this in the in the docs out there, everybody should have access to download it. So this first one is, is the burst strategy, and it breaks down a deal by the different types of financing. So the first, the first page is the inputs, and this is where you can put in how much everything costs. Like, here's the purchase price. I think the rehab is going to be this. I think the ARV is going to be this. If you know what the hard money loan to cost is going to be, what the interest rate, if you're going to buy points on it, so that, that all that kind of stuff that you get from the hard money person, or if you're going to use a traditional mortgage, like, well, you're going to use a traditional mortgage afterwards. So what is that going to be for your 30 year mortgage, how much down down payment Do they require, like all that kind of stuff. And there are different explanations. If you hover, you'll see the different explanations of what each of these are to try to help you determine what this is. Now the caveat here, I did not make this, but I've been using it, and it works pretty good. And it'll it'll work up to a four Plex, because you can, you know, you can burr the regular burst strategy works on everything from a four Plex down. So, yeah, very possible. Okay, so that's, there's where your, all your inputs go. Is on this page. And then you, here's your different kinds of financing, if you have the cash to do it yourself. This will show you the numbers broken down of what it's going to be. And this is, this is all your your stuff that really matters, your cash flow, your operating your noi, all that stuff, your cap rate. And then if you're financing at a traditional bank, here's those numbers. And if you're using hard money, here's those numbers, okay, all that kind of stuff. And you can see the cash on cash goes down, even though it's just kind of got dummy numbers in there. But hard money, because of the interest, is so much higher, all these numbers go down. So it's got to be, got to be a better deal for hard money, and then at the end, you can see the full summary, side by side of all the different financing and what the numbers will be at the end. So it's pretty handy little spreadsheet. I like it a lot. So that's the bur by financing.

Unknown Speaker  42:39
Also, nope, that was that.

Speaker 1  42:47
Then the the rehab, okay, so again, very similar to that other one, where you can see the different you have different options here that you can use. The first one is just the quick numbers like this. You might be using this when you look at the listing, or you do a walk through on your own first like, Okay, do I even want to attempt this? How much, you know, let me get a ballpark of what this rehab is going to be like. You know, here's the prices for cabinets. Here's the, you know, vanity, you know, all your broken down, my room, bathrooms. And I don't know why it looks like it's cutting some stuff off, but you can kind of see what it is, you know, new garage doors, the whatever like, how much it costs for a big dumpster to come, you know. And these are, these numbers are a little bit higher, probably, like, I know just from personal experience, that a large dumpster where I'm at is 450 bucks, and it costs $200 every time that you have to have it dumped. So some of these are inflated a little bit, but you would rather overestimate than underestimate, for sure. But this gives you a ballpark. Okay, that's then you have the walk through where you're going through, and you're jotting down everything that you think it needs on that first time through. So then you can come back and start estimating the prices, right? So you can print this out, or, you know, pull it up on on your phone and fill it out, whatever. But it's, it's there for you, you know, starting with the major stuff, mechanicals, you know, foundation water heater, you know, does it have asbestos? Does it have lead paint that you're going to have to remediate mold, like, whatever, all that kind of stuff, because these places are going to be rough, they're not going to be nice. And then this is like a little quick analyzer, kind of doing, like a basic form of what we did in the other one, but it'll help you. You can jot all this stuff down and just kind of see where you're at. And then they even have one that's on a clipboard. So this, this fits right on a clipboard. You can go through and you can say, okay, it's going to be about this much about this much about. This much, and it just helps you, kind of run through all that stuff, and then you get into the nitty gritty right here, and you're estimating, but it just, you know, software, tools, spreadsheets, all this stuff helps you, because you can't keep it in your head. You can't estimate without real numbers. You can't estimate without real knowledge of what it's going to take to rehab it and see what was the last one was the scope of work template. Let me see if I can find that. There it is. Okay, obviously I didn't grade this one, but it's a good one. So this is a, this is a private capital A private money lender that, you know, they specialize in burrs. So you can kind of see right here, like, what you can expect out of your contractor, every single thing, like, you're going to go through with them, and they're going to say, what's the material, what's the labor? Like you and them together, so you come to the same numbers at the end of this thing. So And notice, permits are included. They're right there. Be sure I know that they're listed first. That, you know, make those jerks get all their permits first.

Unknown Speaker  46:22
But, yeah, there's, there's your example, scope of work,

Speaker 1  46:26
and it's a lot. See, it's a lot of stuff on here. All right, now, let's analyze one. I have one we can use the spreadsheet. Let's see okay, so I was looking on Zillow. I just picked a big city, and what I did is I looked for one that already had an ARV, because I didn't want to just try to estimate it myself. But like I said before, you know, don't trust the numbers that they put into the ARV. It's not necessarily right. They're just guessing too. So I saw this one, I was like, well, this might be pretty good, right? So it's four bedroom, two bath, 1300 square feet, so it's kind of small for four beds and two bath. But the cool thing about it is someone has already started this. They've done all the demo. They have gutted everything. They've done all of the plumbing and electrical. This is an old home. It was built in the early 1900s so it seems like somebody has started it and either ran out of money or gotten to some issues or whatever. So there'd be a little bit of a red flag there. You want to look at the foundation. You want to look at just anything that might have come up, just in case there's something missing. But it's not horrible. So you're kind of starting from a blank slate. And you can see there, it's got a brand new furnace. It's got brand new, you know, central air, like all that stuff's already done. The outside of it is already done. So you don't have to worry about that. You know, roofing, all the outside, all the bones are good, essentially. So it was built in 1912 and it says that the ARV, so they're asking 82 nine for it. It says that the ARV is 185, okay, so let's go ahead and put that into our 70% rule. So we said 70 the 70% rule was 829, 100, the purchase price, we're going to get 70% of that. Okay? And they even put on here what they think the rehab is going to be 25 to 30,000 whether you believe that or not, is up to you.

Unknown Speaker  48:57
Oh, I I'm sorry. ARV, well, what am I doing?

Speaker 1  49:01
Can I start this over? One, what does it say? 185 185

Unknown Speaker  49:08
times point seven,

Unknown Speaker  49:12
okay, minus so they said 30,000

Speaker 1  49:19
okay. So according to this, if that is correct on the ARV, if that is correct on the rehab costs, it's already a pretty good deal, because they already want 82 nine for it. I don't know how much I believe that I would want to look, I would want to get a different contractor in there, but this, this person says that they're a contractor, and they estimate that's what's left on it. So whether you want to believe that, I don't know, but that's part of the game, right? So, but there you go. So there would be the most you would ever pay for this. It's already under by, what, 17,000 so that gives you a little bit of wiggle room. Yeah, okay, so let's plug it into the analyzer and see what it's going to give us. Now we're going to use the bird by financing, and we'll go to the inputs here. So the purchase price was 82 nine

Unknown Speaker  50:22
re rehab cost. We said 30,000

Unknown Speaker  50:27
after repair. They said 185

Speaker 1  50:31
okay, hard money. 15% is a little high on the hard money, but it can be anywhere, depending on where you're at in the state of the economy, like anywhere from like nine to 15. So we'll just call it like 13. I think 13 is fair right now. Things that have gone down, yeah, they usually want you to buy a couple points. We'll say, we think that the rehab is going to take 90 days. We're going to have a legit contractor in there, and they're going to get it done in 90 days. Now, afterwards for the mortgage. So right now, the mortgage rates for just regular home are like 6.5 so usually it's about a point higher. So 7.5 is pretty good. You can usually it's a quarter, but you can get away with 20% sometimes you can put that number in there. Acquisition cost. That's just, you know, all the fees that you're going to have to pay. It's one unit only. So this is where you have to know what the rent is going to be. So let's check that out. I can show you that I already pulled it up over here in bigger pockets, so I can show you what it looks like, 4204 Wabash city. You search, you got to put in the particulars. Sometimes it pulls it up, sometimes it doesn't. And then it'll give you an estimate of what by the data, what it considers a fair market value, rent for that home. Now it does say low confidence here, so that means that it doesn't have a whole lot of data to go off of, but you can see similar places in the area how much they were last listed for, and the ones that are recent. So in June, there was one that's very close to the same size and the same area, 1800 1600 so I mean, it looks like it's pretty close to me. So let's say 1650 is where we're going to be at with that. So put 1650 in there, okay? And you always put at least 5% in for possible vacancy. Usually that's more for a multi family than for that single family. But you know there might be a month where you've got a tenant that moves out, or there might be a month where you know you have to carry that rent or something like that on your own while you're getting a new tenant, real estate taxes. Let's that's different for every area, but usually the Zillow listing will say it, let's see if it tells us. I Okay, 620 what it says seems pretty low, whatever.

Unknown Speaker  53:33
Okay, taxes,

Speaker 1  53:37
so you would have to decide if you're going to use a property management company or not, it automatically filled from 10% of this, so if you're going to use it, so we'll just say that you are going to use it, you you factor in another 5% for potential repairs that might be needed, and then, like water and sewer, that's about 100 bucks, generally, trash that could be anywhere from, you know, 25 to 60. You just have to know in that area what it's going to be. You can find all that stuff online. Are you going to be paying electric for them? Are you going to be mowing the grass for them? Are there Hoa, dues, all that kind of stuff. So this gives us about what we need right here. And you can see some of the stuff, the closing costs, all that stuff is factored in. So let's go look at it. If we were to pay cash for this, this is what it would look like. Okay, what's going on here? Do I have something in wrong? Why does that say? Yeah, I got Hold on What did I put, oh, I put $620,000 for real estate taxes. It's getting crazy. It's not that crazy, though. Something was wrong with those numbers. Okay, there we go.

Speaker 2  54:51
And I was looking at that, Shane, where did you get that number from? Like, where did you pull it from?

Unknown Speaker  54:56
For, for the taxes. I.

Speaker 1  55:00
So that was actually in in the listing on Zillow, Zillow Redfin, all of them will generally tell you how much the annual taxes in that area. They pull that. That's not part of the like the realtor doesn't put that in. They pull that from different data. They pull it from the county website or the city website by the tax, because that's all like right now, if I wanted to look up if you owned a home somewhere, I could look up that home that you own and see how much you paid in taxes. It's public record. Okay, so we got that going, those numbers in there. Now let's look at it. Okay, so if you were to pay cash for this, your cash on cash return is 12% that's great. Your cap rate isn't super high, but that's because you put a whole bunch of money into it, right? And just like with this, you put a whole bunch of money into that, but you don't have those interest fees, you don't have any of that stuff. Let's see what's the cash flow here. Okay, so the cash flow per year is going to be 14,195

Unknown Speaker  56:07
so let's see what that is, a month.

Speaker 1  56:18
12. Okay, so that thing's going to cash flow a grand if you paid cash for it. Okay? Now that's after property management fees. That's after you've taken 5% out and put aside for possible repairs and possible vacancies like it's it's going to build a little bit of a war chest, and in case bad things happen, something breaks or whatever, but that's if you're sitting on enough cash where you know you could have paid 100,000 for it or whatever, 89,000 or whatever, plus another 30,000 to finance the rehab. Okay, so this is more a traditional bank here, so like the fix and flip kind of thing, same thing. Our annual cash flow is less obviously because you had to pay all those that interest. So cash flow here, 8630

Unknown Speaker  57:14
by 12

Speaker 1  57:17
b7, 120 a month. Essentially, that's your traditional now, let's look at the hard money and starting off, it's pretty much what you're going to have to do until you get a little bit of a track record. You know, you got to pay the cost to be the boss, right? So, 4619,

Unknown Speaker  57:38
divided by 12.

Speaker 1  57:41
So it's about 385 but again, that's after property management. You know you could add more potential cash flow if you didn't do a property management, but you're still making 400 bucks a month. You got your initial investment out, and you're moving on to the next one. There you go. But that's that's essentially like a rose, like a rosy view of of the burr. And it's much harder right now to do a burr than it has been. You know, when the interest rates were lower and a lot of lot of properties were moving in and out of the market like it was a much easier now you're going to have to hook up with somebody like Eric and get a good deal on something, because it's it's hard to find them, and there's still people burring but and they're all competing for the same properties, and they're all trying to cut corners and cut costs, and materials are going up. But you know the I know it's a cliche, but you know, you make money on real estate when you buy, not when you sell, and that is 100% the truth, because if you overpay, there's nothing you can do. You're just you're screwed, so you got to find that good deal first, and that's half the battle. But there you go. That's the burr.

Unknown Speaker  59:07
Where did you say you could find the taxes again?

Speaker 1  59:10
Um, yeah. So taxes like, that's why I love Zillow, and I think Redfin does it too. But if you So, this is just this normal listing here that I went through. If you scroll down and to the facts and features, and then there's a there's usually there's a more button, and then the financial and listing details, it'll break it down for you, the the tax assessed value, you know, when it was put on the market, and how much it they currently pay in taxes. And that's yearly rate. Yeah, yeah, it's for a year. For a year.

Unknown Speaker  59:44
Go ahead. Sorry. We

Speaker 1  59:45
also have to find the insurance too, that you know, if you

Speaker 3  59:49
scroll, scroll down a little bit farther in Zillow, and it'll give you all that keep going, keep going, keep going.

Speaker 1  59:55
I don't, I don't know that. I necessarily trust it, though, because

Speaker 3  59:59
it's you. Usually pretty, pretty close. You can get more once you talk to the actual real estate agent, they'll, they'll give it to you. But I've, I've found it to be pretty close,

Speaker 1  1:00:09
okay, I think it depends on the area too, you know, yeah, and the amount of coverage that you want, this is just going to be the basic coverage to cover your loan when you're talking about doing construction and doing all that kind of stuff in there. You for at least that point, you know that period of time when the rehab is happening, you're going to have to pay higher insurance to keep yourself safe. But that's a short time, right?

Speaker 4  1:00:33
So I'm asking because I'm actually trying to file tax taxes in a few of my earners, and I don't know how to find my my taxes.

Speaker 1  1:00:43
Well, they should, they should send you next person. Well, they should send you, you know, the the collector, the county collector, or assessor, depending on where they should send you, something in the mail that says what you owe, and then you you pay. I mean, that's how it is on all of all of my rentals, like I don't have to seek that out. Do they have your so do you want them in an LLC, or in your

Speaker 4  1:01:10
personal name? It's in my LLC.

Speaker 1  1:01:13
So what's the address on the LLC? Because I bet that is where documents went.

Speaker 4  1:01:20
Okay, I have a virtual address for my LLC, so that's probably where

Speaker 1  1:01:24
it's going. You can also go on the assessor or the collector's website and put your your property in there, like your address, look for it, and it should also tell you what you owe, and you can pay it online, like, all you need is the address. Like, you know, anybody can pay anybody's taxes, you know, that's that doesn't seem to be a thing. And nobody to pay anybody else's taxes anyway, but, but, yeah, you can go on there and and see what it is and pay it online. You should be able to. So you don't have mortgages on this. On these,

Speaker 4  1:01:56
I do have mortgages, but it's mortgage insurance and, uh, so

Speaker 1  1:02:05
you don't have the taxes escrowed.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:06
I don't have the taxes escrowed.

Speaker 1  1:02:08
Yeah, Okay, gotcha, yeah, I assume that's, that's probably what happened, is it went to a different address or something. But they should, yeah, they should totally send it to you. Oh, but you should be able to find it in that county, okay, on the website.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:28
What about anybody else?

Speaker 1  1:02:32
Did any everybody get a chance to look at those spreadsheets and at least kind of see what's going on with them? I hope that they have enough explanation in them. I know spreadsheets can get weird, but and they can save you so much time, too. And also, let me show you this another reason why bigger pockets is really good. So that what that pro membership does,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:58
one it helps you

Speaker 1  1:03:00
find different deals, like they have little off market. I think it's deal finder is, is what it is, you know, and you get a, it's either a really cheap or or a free membership to deal finder. You can get those agents that I was talking about to start building your team. You can see that stuff for free. You can find foreclosures, you know, syndications, whatever it is that you're looking for, and then the analysis is what's great. So they have a burr calculator in here, so you can start a new report right here. And you can just start putting all this stuff in here. You put the address in there, and a lot of times, it'll fill a lot of the stuff out for you, but it's basically doing what our spreadsheet just did, and it'll give you the same breakdown in the results. But what it won't do is give you the, you know, the difference between hard money, traditional bank, and you. So you can see all that stuff side by side, because it's very valuable at the end of this thing, which we didn't look at the summary page, but you to see the breakdown side by side of, you know, the the cash on cash and all that stuff. Now, if you look here, the cash on cash is really high. Now, why would that cash on cash be really high? That's because the down payment was much lower. Okay, that's why, because you didn't put much money into it to begin with. But, you know, and the cap rates the same because it's at the end of the day, it's worth the same amount you put the same amount of stuff in. But this is what matters to most people. That's that cash flow, okay? But, yeah, bigger pockets, it's got that. It's got fix and flip. You can do that in there. It's got special stuff for short term rentals, like anything and everything. Real Estate, it's huge. It's got all kinds of cool stuff. So even the rehab estimator, so all the stuff that we were just talking. Them out. That's in that other spreadsheet. You can put all that stuff in your boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. It'll print out a scope of work you that you can give to your contractor and make it. You know, it's all fancy and looks professional. So even if you don't know what you're doing, they think you do. Sometimes that's enough to keep them in line. Yeah, fake it till you make it. But, yeah, okay. Does anybody have any questions about burr or real estate in general?

Speaker 2  1:05:32
I do. Okay, so I was particularly not into real estate, but you made it sound so fun time. It's scary too, because, you know, I feel like you have to be a very organized person to be able to, like, you know, have all these numbers going through your head and be organized, and that's something I feel like I'm not so great at. However, my question is, it sounds adventurous to take on like I'm somebody who like adventure. Can we do this with the homes that we find on Facebook, you know, like they wouldn't give us all the ARV up front and some other data. You know, just like, buy and sell like, I find some things easier with some website compared to like Facebook marketplace. But I feel like you know, if you really want to get some good deals, Facebook is a great place to find some dirt cheap things, if you if you know what you're doing. So what is the best to navigate? What is the best tool to use? If I want to say, let me look for something on Facebook, because I recently found something in my neighborhood, not too far from me, that has something promising, like this, but I don't know how to evaluate it to make the best decision. I just stayed away, actually.

Speaker 1  1:07:05
Okay, that's a great question. So even, even on this listing, you know, they put 185 as the ARV, we don't know if we can trust that that's just whoever is selling the house, you know, put that in there. Even this rehab cost, you can't trust that either. You still have to do those you have to figure those numbers out for yourself. That's why, if you find like, something like this, if you're if you're entering into it for the first time, like I to me, I think it's worth it to pay the realtor fees. If you've got a good, seasoned realtor that knows about fix and flips, they know about Burr, they know about investment properties. They know the area. They're local, and they can help you determine what this ARV is going to be like. You go into you go in there with your realtor, and you say, Okay, if this place was nice, like, if we, if we made it comparable to every house around here, what would it be worth? You know, and you can also, so let's do this too. Let me show you this.

Speaker 3  1:08:08
Yeah, just to, just to put it out there. About this. If anybody has a property, you can put it in the community, and I can show you how to comp properties pretty, pretty accurately. There's a lot of nuances on how you have to comple them. They have to be like square footages, like years built in the same vicinity within, you know, half a mile radius, sometimes to a mile radius of the property. There's a lot of nuances to comping, but we are in this group together, so I'm I'm more than willing to help anybody. If you've come across a property and are curious about an ARV, I can show you how to do it for yourself. So you can do it for any other ones that you find. It does take a little bit of learning and but there are tools out here, and you can do a lot of it just through Zillow like Shane. Shane scrolling through right now.

Speaker 1  1:09:04
Yeah, it's got a lot of good information on here, but it doesn't show me usually on Zillow, you can see the Street View and the lot lines, but I don't know why it's not showing me that for the so let me go to a different listing.

Speaker 3  1:09:18
And so the way I would do it usually is I would zoom in on that property, and then I would just draw a boundary around that property, and then you can put in filters in in Zillow to filter for property similar to that that have sold in the last 90 days. And it'll give you some pretty, pretty good comps on what is sold in the area in the last 90 days. Gotcha. And it'll let you filter all the way up to year built. So you want to go plus or minus 10 YEARS OF THE YEAR built within plus or minus 100 square foot of the actual square footage of your property. You want to be. Pretty close on beds and baths, and you can filter it down, and it'll show you properties that have been sold. If you change from for sale to sold, it'll tell you what's sold in that area.

Speaker 1  1:10:12
I want, okay, here's, here's one, right here, here's a. I don't know why the other listing didn't show that, but you can see right there. So lot lines. If I expand this, not lines, you can see what the estimate is, the Zillow estimate at least of the homes around it. That also helps. You know, if you find one, it's really low, and everything around it is 345, times. That's probably a good sign. But if everything around there is terrible, it's not, you know, no one wants to live in the nicest house in a terrible neighborhood. It's going to be difficult to rent that thing out, and it's not going to appraise well. So just just like what Eric was saying, you can get the what things have sold for recently in the last 90 days. And you can get the Zillow estimate, which is that stuff's kind of factored in there too. Zillow, the Z estimate, is a little bit slower to pull in those numbers and that data, but it does help. So this will give you, like, high level like, Oh no, I don't want to be anywhere near this neighborhood. Look at these prices. No. Thanks. That comes, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:11:20
I try to find at least three similar and then average amount. And you can get a, basically a price per square foot of what a remodeled home we go for if you were going to fix and flip. And then the other strategy with, you know, Shane, with the rental then you can do the same thing with the rental market in that area as well.

Speaker 1  1:11:40
So there's another one too. So if you're just looking to see if it's priced well right now, or you're just looking at off market or whatever, now, the data on this isn't great, but it's it's free. So a lot everybody, a lot of people, use prop stream. Prop stream is very expensive, yeah, you know, it costs quite a bit of money, but the data is fantastic, but you can use prop wire.

Speaker 3  1:12:06
So we'll tell y'all also being we're in this community. I have prop stream. If anybody is wanting to get into the real estate part of this stuff, we can it'll let you co share your prop stream with up to four other users and split the cost. So, oh,

Speaker 1  1:12:24
nice our community. Boom. Yeah, thank you, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:12:28
So like it's 90 $97 a month. But if you split it amongst four people, it knocks it down to like, 20 bucks a month.

Speaker 1  1:12:36
Okay, that that helps a lot. That's awesome, man. So here, but prop wire is a free version. Now, the data is not as good, it's not as fresh, but if you know, if you're just getting in, you want to look around. What it does give you is the estimated equity, so you can see, you know, do they owe a lot of money? Are they underwater on this house? What's their payment? What? What is their estimated interest rate by the time you know they do it by purchase date and the prevailing rates at that time, and how much down payment they put, and all that kind of stuff. But it gives you a lot of information that you you don't get from Zillow, and you can get this totally for free. Prop wire. It helps so you can see if somebody, you know, they have a lot of equity, or they don't have any equity, you know. And it just gives you bargaining chips, like, okay, you know, I know you don't have anything in this house. Let's just figure this out. You know, I know you want to get rid of it. Let's, let's do it. And you owe, or you owe this much, how about I give you what you owe, plus 10% or and I'll give you 10,000 on top of that, just to leave, you know, and it might be a great deal for you. And then they walk away. They might have bills or taxes or whatever they have to pay. So they walk away from a bad situation where they can't pay their mortgage with 10 grand in their pocket, and you walk away with a really good deal that you can then sell it to someone else, or burr it, or rehab, fix and flip or, you know, whatever you want to do. These numbers are huge when it comes to that.

Speaker 3  1:14:12
Yeah, so just like that property that you pulled up, I pulled it up in Prop stream, and that property was actually bought off market back in September, for $125,000 for a flipper. So now he's trying to sell it. He got in over his head. He's selling it for way less than what he paid for it, just because he, I think, bit off more and he could chew in that property.

Speaker 1  1:14:33
So probably, I mean, he put a lot of money into it, too. You put all, you know, he all the demo, all the electricals done, all the plumbing is done. All the HVAC is done. All it needs is the cosmetic stuff on the inside. Yeah, and he it's been, I noticed on there, it's been on the market for about six months, and it's been price reduced multiple times over and over and over. So yeah, they're in trouble. They need the money. So if somebody's looking to do this, and they're. In Kansas City or the Hey, there you go. Yeah.

Speaker 3  1:15:04
And that's what I was going to say. If anybody's wanting to do this anywhere, drop some, some buy boxes of what you're looking for or where you're looking in the community. And I'll, I'll help you all get on on the starting page of where you want to look and what you should be looking for. And you know that's what I do on a daily basis. I'm making phone calls to realtors all the time. So, okay, but then, you know, some more to add to the burr strategy too, is when you go into the rehab, the rehab numbers that we were talking about, you also you don't want to buy a middle class home and put million dollar, you know, finishes in a middle class home, and expect that you're going to get a return just because you put high end finishings, but you did it in a middle class family. That middle class family is not going to be able to afford the finishings that you put in that house, just like you don't want to go into a low class neighborhood and put high class finishings and something that's going to come in and get ripped out or tore out. So those are all things that you gotta consider when you're doing your rehab. Numbers on where your property is, what kind of neighborhood is it in, you know, on what kind of finishings that you want to do, know

Speaker 1  1:16:16
your market. And that's why that realtor is huge. And I know I don't like to pay realtor fees. It seems like they don't do anything right? They send you a contract and then I get a big check. But you're paying them for their knowledge. You're paying them for their experience. You're paying them to keep you safe and to keep you from buying a bad deal. If they're a good investment realtor, they can end up saving you a lot of money. You know, they know the history of the property too. They might know that this property has been sold and bought multiple times, because something is going on that you can't see at first glance. There's something underneath it, like I so I went to, it was in southern Missouri. I went down and I was looking at this place. It was a, it was a four Plex, and it needed, needed a lot of work, but it was a good location. And so I went down, I looked at it on my own first. I just, you know, I didn't go in or anything. I was just kind of checking it out from the street. I was like, Okay, this might be good. So I talked to a realtor in that area, and I gave him the address that I and he said, oh, oh, that one. He said, that's sold every that's bought and sold every year, and it has been for the last seven years. What he said, Yeah, he said, I don't really know why that. Everybody keeps selling it, and they think they can, they can turn it around, but everybody gets it, they they try something with it, and they sell it within a year. So there you go. I would never have known that. I would have made it a possible offer on something that was a dud for whatever. I still don't know why, but I mean, just just by having a good, experienced Realtor in that area probably saved me a huge headache.

Speaker 3  1:17:51
Realtors are my best friend now, when I first started doing wholesaling, I was doing off market stuff, you know, driving for dollars, looking for the rundown, you know, houses and stuff, trying to make offers to people like that so much easier when somebody already wants to sell their house. And then you get these real estate agents, and you make friends with them, and you put them and they'll, they'll message you with pocket listings, because at the end of the day, they want to get paid too. So you know, if I can help them sell a house, I'm I'll make some money. They make their money. The homeowner makes their money at the end of the day. Everybody wins. So, you know, the real estate agents are, are really vital, important, like he said, in these areas, find you a good one. And you know, with the burr strategy too, if they help you find the one that you originally bought. Tell them, you know, once you flip it, I want you to be the one to relist it for me. And then they make make money on both ends of the deal, yep.

Speaker 1  1:18:48
And it incentivizes them to find you a good deal. Because they, you know, they know where their real money is going to come from. Is when they sell. It's on the back end. Why is the amount after you've increased the value of it? So, yeah, yeah. I mean, when I first started this, I'm like, I'm not paying a realtor. I don't do a contract on my own. I don't want to deal with that. But not anymore. They make my life

Speaker 3  1:19:11
and we you can still do that. I have trust companies, I have title companies, all that kind of stuff. You don't have to have a realtor to buy a property you don't so it's, it's, it's handy, like, if you're buying it for yourself, for retail purposes, but for a fix and flip kind of deal, you don't really have to have a realtor, right?

Speaker 1  1:19:34
It's just, how familiar are you with the process, with the area, with, you know, can you estimate your own ARV? Can you do your own comps? Can you figure that stuff out on your own? And you know, there's a way where you can pay everything comes in, in investing in business, you either pay someone for their knowledge and their expertise, or you learn it yourself. You know, there's a short, short way and a long way, and they can both get you. The same place, but one requires more effort and the other one requires more money. So you just, just pick your path. So quick

Speaker 2  1:20:07
question, do you, does the realtor has to be knowledgeable in a flip of flip, or does it have to be like, just a generic realtor?

Speaker 1  1:20:18
Well, so if you're, if you're going out of town, like, in a different area, you know. So if you're going to do in your own, in your own area, okay, yeah, so you can even go on, you can go on bigger pockets right now and look for an investment realtor you're looking you don't want, you don't want someone who's going to say, well, I don't like those countertops, you know. Or, you know, this place is run down. You want somebody that's going to say, Oh, this is a good neighborhood. This house could be worth this if you did this, this and this, you know, it's a whole different world. Your regular realtor is dealing with couples, you know, first time home buyers. You know people that are just ready to buy a home to live in it. And they know what those people want an investment. Realtor knows what investors are looking for. They know that, you know they're looking to add value and all that stuff. So they might not be really good at estimating rehab costs and all that, but they are good at knowing what something can be worth when it is nice, and they can give you ideas of what works in that market and what doesn't, you know, the countertops and the the paint and whatever, well, I mean, whatever works around there, so you don't put too much into it, because you're trying to maximize your returns, right, putting the least amount in and pulling the most out. And they can help you with that, for sure. But yeah, you want to find a an investment realtor.

Speaker 3  1:21:42
One of the best Realtors I have that I found in my local area is actually, she's the HUD director in the area too. So she knows all about the Section Eight, all the you know, low income, how to maximize what you can get out of a section eight property. She knows what they're going to come in and look for she can tell you exactly, well, this finishing, or if you do this, or if you add that, or if you have this appliance, or if you pay this additional cost, you know they're going to give you the full funding of what you can get out of this house.

Speaker 1  1:22:14
And nine times out of 10, they have their own properties. They've got a huge portfolio. They've been in it for a while. They have they know they've done the same thing that you're trying to do. So they've been there, done that, so they can help guide you in that process. The realtor I'm using right now, she's been a realtor for 25 years. She's got rentals all over the state, like, I mean, it's hard to find somebody that knows more about the stuff than she does.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:41
Network, network, network, absolutely.

Speaker 2  1:22:45
The reason I'm asking is because I have a retail right now, and I was supposed to use them for a private residential place. This guy seemed to be very, very smart. He knows his stuff. So are you saying, like, if I have somebody like this, don't go with them if I want to do a flip, because I almost purchased something like this last year. And he looked at everything. He wasn't sure of what to tell me, but just looking at the property, he was like, You know what? I feel like you might run into problem with this. So would you rather just advise that go to

Unknown Speaker  1:23:24
contract with him? Did you sign a contract?

Speaker 2  1:23:30
No, not yet. Okay, he happened to be a friend that recommended him.

Speaker 5  1:23:37
I got into issues with my very first,

Speaker 1  1:23:41
yeah, just, have you helped people get investment properties? If so, how many? What types have you helped in? You know, other investors, you know, ask him, here's a here's a good, easy question. Just ask him, What do you think about the burr strategy? If he hammers and stumbles and doesn't really know what what that means, like at a depth where you should understand it at this point, then, yeah, that's not going to be the right one. Like a realtor that knows what they're doing should be able to just rack it off exactly what you know. And, oh, I helped such and such do it, and ARV and just start throwing out the terms that we've been talking about tonight. So that's yeah,

Speaker 3  1:24:20
just funny. You say that when I'm talking to realtors, I have these little screen questions that I kind of throw in just in general conversation, just to see what kind of things that they'll say back to me, so I'll know if that's somebody that I would want to talk to again, you know, but I mentioned a DSCR loan in conversation. If they can give me some insight about that, or, you know, if I can, you know, just mention little things and they can give you that feeling that they are adequately, you know, know what they're talking about, then I'm going to come back to that person again.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:57
Yeah, absolutely to.

Speaker 6  1:25:00
Okay, I'm just, I'm gonna throw this out there. Technically, a realtor can't tell you what a property is gonna what you're gonna make on it, and whether it's a good deal or not, right? That goes against their license law. They can, their license can be suspended for that, because it'd be, wouldn't be hard for you to go, Well, you said this was gonna be worth 250,000 after I put all this in, and now the market dropped. That's that's a big problem. So technically, in all states, they should give you a range, they should give you some options. And they can't tell you to go to this title company. They can't tell you to use that contractor. They have to give you a list.

Speaker 1  1:25:35
Yeah, technically. But what they can do, though, how you get around that, is you just have them run comps for you, just enough, you know, just say, Hey, can you run comps on this property, if it were at this quality, like, if it was completely rehab, can you just run that comp, those comps for me? And they're not telling you anything. They're not, you know, they're not breaking their, their rules. But that's how kind of, how you get around that. And they're they should. They're going to be like, Yeah, I can run cops for you, but they don't want to, because it's kind of a pain in the neck for them, but they'll do it. And most Realtors don't follow the rules. They they really don't, and the better you get to know them, the more rules they break.

Speaker 3  1:26:15
The realtor association was just sued for like, $1.8 billion and settled because they were fraudulently charging people like,

Speaker 1  1:26:29
Yeah, well, so I'm in the process of buying another house, right? We move on the 14th the realtor that we're buying the house from broke all kinds of rules. She's the She's the head of the, what is the NAR, or national? So in this area, in this county, she was reaching out to me, like personally, texting me, not going through my realtor, she, she all kinds of stuff, I mean, and she's the head of the NAR to where my realtor had to say, like, Hey, leave him alone. It was, like, this weird thing. I mean, it just happens, people are people, you know, but, but, yeah, you're Yeah, 100% right. Dan, like, following the letter of the law. They're not supposed to do that, but they can run cops for you, and that gives you what you need anyway.

Speaker 6  1:27:23
Can I just throw a couple other thoughts in there, as regarding you were talking about hard money lenders and contractors haven't cracking up a contractor. They're the worst. They're the absolute worst. It's the pain in my rear end. You can't

Speaker 1  1:27:37
even get them to answer their phone. Oh, my God, find me a contractor that will answer their phone and I will use them every time that's you. They won't even answer. They won't talk to you. I hate contractors,

Speaker 6  1:27:49
so one of the things that I wish someone sat me down and helped me understand when I first got into real estate about 10 years ago, was a bank only makes I don't care if it's hard money lender or traditional bank, private lender, whatever, they only make money when they lend money. And one of the toughest things to find is a great borrower. You have a lot more power as the borrower then you probably realize or give yourself credit for because if you have a good deal and nobody's throwing money at you, you probably don't have a good deal. Just throw that out there, right? You may really like it, but if you can't get funding from anybody, it's probably a bad deal. And the catch 22 of that, just because you get funding, it also doesn't mean it's a great deal either, right? Because banks only make money, which is when I'm going into acquiring business understanding, just because I can go qualify with the SBA doesn't necessarily mean it's a great deal, right? There's a lot of due diligence that goes into that. So I just want to throw that out there to everybody like, you have a lot of you're a good borrower. You got a lot of power, right? And a lot of these people, whether it's a real estate attorney, whether it's a title company, they only get paid on when something closes. So they're motivated to help you close. If you're not sure the numbers, how people double check it, because they want to make sure that you're confident in it. And you can come back and do it over and over and over again, just throwing that out there. The other thing with contractors, we implemented this last year, and I wish again. I wish I would have known it 10 years ago. But when it comes to final inspection, we scope a work contract. We do all that stuff, but we will, we will hold back the last 10 to 15% or whatever that is, depending on the contractors, if it's the first time I work with them, or if they have an established relationship. And I don't care if I've known somebody for the last 41 years of my life, we always hold back a minimum of 10% so final invoice, when, when project is supposed to be completed, it's always so. Supposed to be completed on a Wednesday, because their invoice is due on Wednesday, we do a walk through inspection in a punch list on Thursday, because nine times out of 10, sometimes things are missing. Light switch cover could be something simple as that, or, Hey, you forgot to paint a whole room. That happens too, right? Because contractors, they're the worst, right? And if you get a good contractor, they'll tell you, yeah, we're the worst, right? But we have a walk through with either a general contractor, or I do it, or my business partner does it, and then they have all day Friday to clear up that punch list, and if they don't show they don't get paid the last 10% and then we have that money to get whatever we need done with somebody else.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:48
Yeah, that is or anything.

Speaker 6  1:30:50
Invoices due by 5pm every Wednesday, Thursday, we do the walk through. Friday is the final payout or cleanup, and that is, those are just solid on my calendar, every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, yeah, and that made all the difference. So just,

Speaker 1  1:31:06
that's great advice, because, yeah, yeah, I definitely like that. And then also, you know, we're talking about the lending beware of of brokers. Lending brokers, they will tell you a lot of stuff, because they don't care. They get paid if they can close the loan. They don't care if you can pay for it, if it's a good deal, any of that stuff, and especially beware of brokers on Tiktok, because I've been on several lives on Tiktok brokers, where they are just completely giving people false information, so much so that another broker will come in and call them out on it. And, you know, it's ridiculous. It's ridiculous. Like, just false information about DSCR, false information on loan to value, like, just all bad stuff, just trying to get people to put an application in. And, you know, yeah, be very careful when it comes to that. And again, you can go on on bigger pockets and look for an established lender. You can see hard money, private money, they're all on there. You can see all like, they'll have 500 different reviews, that kind of stuff like, and bigger pockets keeps track of all that to where they're not fake reviews like, as far as hard money, though, I don't know if you guys know hard money Gary, that's on Tiktok. Hard money, Gary, he's legit. I've talked to him several times like he's, that's, I don't It's not everybody. He's, he's doing good things, and he does it himself too. He's also an investor. So it's not everybody. But just be careful. As far as those people go, Yeah, I'll try to find, if you just search for hard money Gary, it'll come up on Tiktok, yeah, yeah. No problem.

Speaker 7  1:33:01
Great question. In your past experience. So you always use the realtor, right? Have you purchased like, a investor property without the realtor, like, by using like tools, like prop stream, or maybe some other tools?

Speaker 1  1:33:17
Yeah, well, I mean, it's, it's about, I have, I have, and I've sold property without a realtor. But what I've done is, is I so what, especially selling property. So if you sell a property like, I was able to get a real estate attorney to draw up a contract to sell a property for like, $300 like, they drew up the contracts. They did all I didn't have to do anything other than sign it, and there was no commission, no anything, but I had brokered the deal on my own. So like to me, that's, that's the the worst part about if you're selling a property, you don't necessarily need a realtor, especially if you have a buyer, you can advertise it yourself, like you have an attorney that's going to keep you safe. Why would I pay, you know, this was a large, this was a large place too. This was a huge farm, and it was going to end up costing so they wanted 6% I think it was or something like that. And, you know, this was a, this was a million dollar property. I was not, not going to give them 6% to write up a contract and list it on Zillow. No freaking way. So I went to a real estate attorney instead, and I paid it was less than 500 bucks, and accomplished the same thing, kept myself safe, went, you know, followed the letter of the law all that stuff, and was able to keep that money. Now, buying is a little bit different, because you're paying them for more than you know, and especially with a burr and you know, you're paying them for their knowledge. You're paying them to find places to get you in to look at them, but you can still do it all on your own. You can, 100% do it all on your own. Yeah, I mean, but now. Now, now, yeah, I'm pretty much always, you know, when I first started in real estate, it was a friend of mine, you know, my wife, my wife bought, like, just personal homes. The one we're just getting ready to go to, she's bought like, nine homes just on her own. Before we were even together, she was buying and selling homes, and she's had the same realtor forever. We started using her. She just recently retired, and we moved to her boss at the same place, who had even more experience. But, yeah, I It makes your life easier, but, you know, you got to pay and also to when you're so when you're buying a property this this seller is paying for your agent. You're not paying for your agent. You know they're paying that. Generally it's split. So they're, you know, the seller is paying whatever, 3% to the buying agent, 3% to the selling agent, or whatever they've they've dealt with it. You're not paying that. So your your realtor, is going to get paid, but they're going to get paid off of that other end. But you can find some people that are for sale by owner that won't deal with a realtor too, because they don't want to pay those fees. They need that money. They've already discounted that property in a way that they can't afford to pay realtor fees too. So you'll see that a lot of times on for sale by owner, like they just don't want to deal with it. I've called them, especially on Facebook, if something's listed on Facebook, it's not necessarily open market, you know, Zillow MLS kind of stuff. And I'll say, you know, can I come look at it? And I'm like, Well, do you have a realtor? I don't. I don't want anybody with a realtor. And what are you gonna do? It's their house. They can, you know, they can make that determination if they want to. But as a buyer, there's not a lot of pain using a realtor. It's mainly on the selling side. And they do have that NAR thing where things got a little weird for a little bit as far as who pays what. I thought it was going to change a lot. So far with the realtors in my area, it hasn't really changed anything. They just come to an agreement beforehand, and it's all mapped out. But I don't know. It used to be just naturally that the seller was going to pay both commissions. Now there's some kind of a, some kind of a thing, if it's a, if it's the same agent on both, I don't know it's, it's legal crap that doesn't really matter. But just, just know that the the seller is on the hook for those fees, not the buyer, generally. Thank you.

Speaker 3  1:37:28
So that sometimes, sometimes those fees are negotiable too, depending on the situation.

Speaker 1  1:37:34
Yeah, so that the house that that we're buying right now, the the so we came in under asking price, obviously, and the so the realtor said, yeah, we'll do it, but we'll take that out of the buyer's agent fees. So yeah, you can do that, but it's coming off of her fees, not mine, and not the asking price. So they just basically screwed her over, and she was okay. She actually agreed to it because we were selling our house, and she was our agent for the other the other sales, so she was okay with it. But, yeah, realtors are cutthroat sometimes.

Speaker 3  1:38:12
I mean, I even had an instance of one of the properties that

Unknown Speaker  1:38:16
are wholesaled, the

Speaker 3  1:38:20
owner, the seller, was actually going to lose money on the sale using the realtor. And I'm like, do you really feel good about yourself that you're still going to charge 3% to this person that's going to lose money on the sell of their house? How about I just pay you $500 and you help them through the process and walk away. Yes, they're not, they're not standing to make any money on sold their home. And you're looking to, you know, make a 3% commission on these people. And a lot of times, you know, they'll, they'll work with you on those kind of things, and, you know, lower their commissions, or, like I said, even just kind of take a fee to just be able to stay in the process.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:59
So, yeah, yeah, absolutely.

Speaker 2  1:39:04
So sorry. Shane, let me jump in here. I was a buyer for my very first property. It was like, I believe it was spring of last year, 2024 and I was the buyer and I was going to be charged by my realtor, because I don't know. So how did how would that play out? Like, was she collecting from the seller and then from me? Was that what it was?

Speaker 1  1:39:37
Yeah, I mean, that must have been something in that deal. I mean, that the seller is generally going to pay both of those commissions that does not

Speaker 2  1:39:46
it was, it was calculated into the the into the house, eventually for me. So what happened was, it was my very, very first property, and something prompted me to. To check again, the people who did, you know, the inspection on the property. I don't know what happened. It was just, my God. Then I found out something. They did not report. It was a big crack on the foundation. And I told them, You know what, I'm not going with this house. I don't want this property. And they were like, Oh no, you're too late. You This is it. You got, you're stuck with it, you know. And I just my down payment was like taking and, you know, I had to get another lawyer. I mean, this new rate, or now that I'm dealing with, he's the one who came in. He was recommended by a friend, and with his lawyer and everything, they helped me recover this money back. Your earnest money, yeah, my earnest money, yeah. But it was so horrible that I felt like this ritual was that I trusted she, she was like, pulling a fast one on me.

Speaker 1  1:40:56
It sounds like it. It definitely sounds like it. Now that is the case like you have an inspection period that when you get past that inspection period and and, you know, the inspector didn't find something, or, you know, there's not, you can't get out of that contract specifically for

Unknown Speaker  1:41:16
A property issue

Unknown Speaker  1:41:19
unless, unless you ask them to

Speaker 1  1:41:23
remediate something from the inspection they agreed to it, then they have to, and if they don't fix whatever they agreed to fix, then you can get out of it. But if you guys agree, after the inspection period, like, Okay, you fix this, we agree that you fixed it, whatever, you go back and forth. And then once that period is over, the only way that you can get out of it is that when if you can't close the financing, you know that's because you're in a contract. You're in a legal binding contract. But at the end of that contract, you know, when it gets closer, you know you're getting closer to underwriting or whatever, it becomes very important that you know your your lender, too. You have a good team, right? Because if you're in a situation like that, and you're like, Well, I can't close, or I don't want to close on this house, it's got a huge crack in the foundation. It's going to be however many 10s of 1000s, a good lender that you have a relationship with that you've been buying other properties with and no values, as a customer will say, Okay, well, you know, lower your down payment to this or whatever, and the financing won't go through. So you can't, you can't obtain financing. And that that's, that's your like, get out of a deal free card at the at the end of that. Because if you know no state, I mean especially my state, I know they're not forcing people to buy homes they can't afford. You know they're if you can't get financing at the end of that, they're not going to force you to buy it, but your your earnest money could be in jeopardy. But usually, if you can't get financing, then you get your earnest money back too.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:59
So, and it's like a no fault.

Speaker 2  1:43:01
Dorito was the one who provided the person who was financing. She provided the person, the attorney. She provided so many people involved in it, but then she was kind of like convincing me to like, yeah, you got to stay on this. And then I was charged. It was my very, very first ones. I had no experience. I didn't even know what I was dealing with. And then she was, like, forcing me to stay on. And then there was additional charges. I was the buyer, but I was charge additional for her commission.

Speaker 1  1:43:37
Well, I mean, she may have had you in her realtor agreement. That may have been part of her agreement as a buyer's agent, that may have been in that original contract. You know, she couldn't just, she couldn't just pull that from nowhere like but she, you know, there's nothing saying that she can't charge you if you agree to that contract. At the beginning of it, when you enter into an agreement with this realtor, this is how it's going to go, if that's the way they do things. I mean, they were talking about with that NAR settlement that they were going to start charging per viewings. Some realtors were going to start doing that like, you know, it's just whatever you sign and agree to at the beginning of it is what they're going to follow. And she may have given you a bad contract to begin with? Yeah, that's too bad. I hate to hear that again. That's why your team is so important, so important to find people that you can deal with. Yeah, okay, oh, wow. We this Burr, we got everybody riled up on the whole birth strategy. So we'll go ahead and close this up and we'll start the mentorship I'm.
