Speaker 1  00:01
So I know everybody's probably getting tired of me posting videos of Maui and how awesome it is, but this kind of thing for me is is new. You know, I never in my life dreamt that I could just pick up and go to Maui whenever I wanted to, that I would have the resources and financial freedom to be able to do that, and every moment of every day while I'm here, I thank God and for the opportunities that I've been given and for the ability to do the things that I've been able to do by acquiring businesses and real estate and learning the language of money and nothing. Nothing is it, to me, is, is better than being able to do this right here. I've paddled off the shore of Kihei, and the water, I don't know, probably doesn't pick up on the camera, but you can see right to the bottom and see the fish swimming around. And it's quiet and peaceful, 79 degrees and sunny, and all I can say is I'm so grateful, so grateful. And you know, when I started this journey three years ago, and I didn't think I would ever be able to do things like this, and I'm living proof that if you learn the language of money, you can gain financial freedom, and you and your family can level up to a place where you can do something like this. I don't know if you can see it, but I'm staying at that Airbnb right there at that house, the one with the solar panels on the top, and it's like 100 feet away from the beach. And every night I have the windows open and the waves crash against the beach, and I remember all the times where I laid in bed at night thinking, What is my future going to bring? How can I get financial freedom from my family? How can I change my circumstances, from broke to this. What do I need to do? And now that I have those things I'm telling you, anyone can do it. Anyone can do it. Don't pay for a course that cost 1000s of dollars or anything like that, just like and follow, join my lives. Ask questions in the comments. Ask questions on the lives. I'll answer them. I'm getting ready to create a community, I think because I keep so many people ask me, you know, do you do mentorship? Do you have a community and this and that and and I don't currently. I'm not a social media person. I don't know how it works. I'm a business person. So it's going to take me a little while to learn the social media side of this, but I'm not going to gate keep information. I want to help you get to where I'm at, because everyone can and should be able to have the freedom to take their family to pay.
