Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everyone. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, October 30, 2025 and tonight, what we're going to do is we're going to get into a little bit of a mindset class, and we're going to discuss some of the things that hold people back, especially when it comes to getting a loan or using debt, using leverage. And you know, leverage can be one of the best tools in our toolbox, and yet we have this weird fear of it, and we have misconceptions. We're taught a lot of wrong things about it when we grow up. So I kind of wanted to get into that a little bit and and just, I don't know, dismantle some of those myths that that people always say, because I hear it all the time, and if, if I'm hearing it, I'm sure that you guys are hearing it too when you're trying to get started. So I want to talk about how wealthy use debt, as opposed to the way that the poor and the middle class think about debt. And I know I've talked about it in post before, but I don't think we've ever had a class specifically about it and about leverage and the psychology of it, because it's not something normal in most people, not, not for most people to go to a bank and say, I need $500,000 and not have it for your house like you're the biggest acquisition that most people will ever make in their life, which is their house, and they're going to pay for 30 years and hopefully get some equity that kind of stuff. But we're talking about getting debt for something that should hopefully build wealth. And what I found is that I can just tell you a story. So my wife's family was very much, and my family too was very much about, you know, you go to school, you get a good job, and you work 30 years, hopefully you get a good a decent house and a decent car, and then, you know, when you're 70, you can retire, and maybe your house is paid for, and that's just, that's success for them. You know, you work hard your whole life, and that's it. And I think 3040, years ago, that was more reasonable than it is today. It's really hard even to go to college and get a good job and to still have that kind of lifestyle. Things are so expensive you can go get a degree and make less than someone who is a welder or something like that that goes to trade school. Like things are turned upside down now compared to what they used to be, and it's partially because of covid, partially because of AI. There's a lot of things that that are just different now than what they used to be. So I think that dream and that that goal of of reaching that that spot where you can just get a comfortable job that you just don't hate, make enough money to get to pay your mortgage, to pay your car payment, and then hopefully retire at a later age, nothing is guaranteed. You could work 40 years, and then, you know, 40 years in a day when you're getting ready to retire, you're dead, and you don't get to enjoy anything, right? You've worked your whole life for nothing. So I'm on the mindset of do the investing right now, aggressively to where you get the time sooner rather than later, because that's what this is all about, is buying back your time. Because to me, wealth equals freedom. It gives you the freedom to be able to do what you want to do, the freedom to not worry about bills, the freedom to travel, the freedom to just, just be able to have control over your own life and and so that, to me, that's what it's about. And one of the biggest tools, and something that I used early on, and I still use, and that I don't care how wealthy someone is, they use it as well, is leverage. Even Elon Musk, he could have easily bought Twitter by selling stocks and Tesla stocks, he could have bought Twitter with no problem in cash. But what did he do? He got a loan against his Tesla stocks to buy it so he didn't have to for one, he knew Tesla was going to appreciate it. Was going to make him money. And two, you don't pay taxes on debt, so he was able to go out. I forget how many, how huge that that loan was but it was massive, and that's a different mindset than most people have. Most people think, well, if I've got 20,000 in the bank, I'll go buy something for 20,000 as as opposed to keep that 20,000 there and go get a loan for it, for an asset that's going to pay you back money and hold on to your money. It's about using other people's money, so the rich use debt differently, right? They, they, they turn borrowing into wealth building, okay, whereas the middle class and the poor, especially the middle class, use use leverage to get things that they. Can't afford a lot of times they they'll use it to keep up with the Joneses, like or they'll go credit cards to go on vacation, all these things that will that basically just make you poor and really put you in the hole of bad debt. And that's what we're trying to avoid. So so so let's get into this a little bit more. So it's about the mindset gap. There's a lot of fear of debt out there. So like I was saying about my wife's family, my wife was telling her aunt, she said, we own, you know, this many businesses and blah, blah, blah, and, and her aunt looked at her and she didn't say, oh, that's, you know, that's, that's really cool, or congratulations, or whatever she said, Oh, you must be in just a ton of debt. That's terrible. That was the immediate thing she jumped to, because all she saw was that we likely got loans to buy these assets. And what she didn't see was that these assets completely pay for themselves and other assets and bring money back. She just saw that that debt, and there's an inherent fear of debt, because people associate debt with bad debt. But you have to be a neutral bar borrower, which borrower which? What I mean by that is you don't have your emotions tied up in it. You're not doing an impulse buy that is a gamble, just because you have fear of missing out, or shiny object syndrome or something like that, where it's like, this is the next new big thing, and I got to be involved. No, you're getting into debt because you've analyzed, you've looked around, you've done the work, you know, the numbers, and you have everything as safe as you can possibly get it. Nothing is 100% foolproof. Shit happens, but if you do the work you you know it's not luck, it's it's risk tolerance, and you're figuring out, okay, I've done that. I know this is how much money it made last year, the year before, the year before that. This is where the economy is going. This is where my taxes are. This is what my expense is. This one my payroll, whatever you've gone through every single number, and you know, it should make this much money. And here's what your debt service is. It's going to make you money when you're confident. To that point to where, if anybody asks you your numbers, and you know all those numbers, and you can parrot those numbers to them with confidence. That's when you're ready. Okay, that's when you're a strategic investor. You're not a gambler, you're not someone who's just trying to jump on a trend. No, you've done the work, and you're making decisions that will impact you and your family for years to come in a positive way. Because whether or not you're saving that money, or you're using that money as a down payment. It's the same dollar, right? But it's a different mindset. Are you putting that money in the bank? Are you putting that money towards high interest, bad debt that you have, or are you putting that money towards an asset that's going to bring back more money and more prosperity into your life? And that's the mindset you have to have. So we're taught at a young age to avoid debt, don't use credit cards, which, if you're not disciplined with credit cards that can get you in real trouble. But at the same time, I have business credit cards that I funnel all of my, you know, like supplies and everything through these business credit cards, and I pay them off immediately, and I reap the rewards of, you know, cash back rewards, gift cards, like all this stuff, and I never pay any interest, because I pay them off immediately. And you can do the same thing with your personal cards, if you have the discipline. At the same time, you can get yourself in a huge hole and a mountain of debt that's 25% or more that is very difficult to dig out, so you just have to be very careful with that. And they say, pay cash for everything, you know, the Dave Ramsey method, don't even get a house. You know, wait until you can save up enough money to buy a house. Well, houses are so expensive these days, who in the world can save up enough money to buy a house outright that's worth living in? It's just it's ridiculous, and Dave Ramsey is out of touch. I'm sorry, most wealthy people have used leverage and continue to use leverage in order to gain wealth, and they believe that debt makes you a slave to the bank, like you're always trying to chase that next dollar to pay your mortgage so you don't go under. Well, I think it's completely different. Debt can be freeing as long as it's the right debt. So what these myths cause is paralysis, and people will get to the finish line, they'll find a business, they'll be able to get a loan for it. They'll go through all the stages, and there's a certain point where you have to sign some papers, like, Yes, I'm committing. I'm putting my name on this I'm getting this loan. I'm going to make it happen. Happen. And these fears, these, you know, roadblocks, keep them from doing it, and that's what I want to keep you guys from from encountering. Because it is scary, it should be scary, but it's worth it. I always say the juice is worth the squeeze, and it 100% is if you do it the right way. Now, on the flip side. This is how the wealthy view of debt. They they equal debt to leverage. So you'll notice that a lot of poor people will say debt, and wealthy people and business owners will say leverage. They use leverage. And that's because, if you think about a lever, is a tool, right? That helps you lift something or accomplish something you couldn't on your own. I think it was Archimedes, one of the most famous geniuses in the history of the Earth, said, If you give me a lever large enough, I can move the earth. And that's because, you know, it's a tool, and it allows you to do things that that you normally wouldn't be able to do. So so think about it in that way, as a tool, not as a scary thing that's going to keep you stuck and interest. Think about interest is that's the rent you pay for being able to use the bank's money, right? We don't mind paying rent for an apartment where we know the landlord's making money, as opposed to buying a mortgage, or you are getting a mortgage. So it's the same thing. So I don't want to use my own money. I don't want to save for 15 years. So instead, I'm going to rent someone else's money, and that is the cost of renting someone else's money, is the interest, and the goal is control of an asset. You don't necessarily have to own it, but if you can control it, but ideally, you get both. You know an Ownership mindset is is better than like, a renter's mentality or an employee mentality. You know you want to control that asset,

Unknown Speaker  12:01
so it's emotion versus math.

Speaker 1  12:05
On the left side, you have fear, Shane and avoidance. That's those are the things that are keeping you stuck. And on the right you have the numbers and the formulas that you use to know if it's a good deal. You have ROI, which is return on investment. I i talk about it in just about every one of my lives, where, if you take $50,000 you can buy an investment property that's worth about, let's see you put 25% down so you get a $200,000 property. Maybe you cash flow six to $7,000 a year. So it takes you, what, eight, nine years to get your $50,000 down payment back. That's not a very good ROI you can buy a $500,000 business with that 50,000 and in the very first year, you make about 175,000

Unknown Speaker  12:49
you pay the debt off, you get about 135,000 back.

Speaker 1  12:52
That's almost 300% on your return on investment. It's very close to that. You know, you're not going to find that with other investments. And you could also just take that 50,000 and blow it on a vehicle or something and get nothing. You get a bottomless money pit that will cost you money for the next 10 years. And then cash flow. Cash flow in this situation is the money after the debt is paid that comes back to your pocket that allows you to invest in more assets, that allows you to increase your lifestyle, that allows you to go on trips, that allows you to just be more comfortable in your lifestyle. That's cash flow and debt makes that possible, and then controlling the assets so wealthy people remove the emotion from it, and it's all about the numbers. So let's talk about good debt versus bad debt. I've kind of glossed over a little bit, but bad debt is credit cards for lifestyle, if you're buying a bunch of clothes on on credit cards, if you're going on trips, if you're door dashing, you know, getting Door Dash every day on credit cards, because you just don't want to go pick up food or go to the grocery store. Bad debt, bad debt. Bad debt. If you're trying to increase your lifestyle and trying to get somewhere, you're going to have to be disciplined with your debt and especially with credit cards, because I don't care how bad your credit score is, you're still going to get pre approved cards in the mail. It's almost like, the worse you're, the worse your your credit score is, the more they want to throw at you. It's It's crazy and good debt on the on the other hand, is like getting an SBA loan to buy a business, a good business anyway, to where your cash flow positive every single month, or to buy real estate or to buy. I don't care if it's to buy, you know, T shirts and a screen printing machine, because you're gonna You got an idea for a T shirt that you can sell on eBay or whatever, whatever it is, it's with a positive net cash flow at the end of every month. And then you have some things that are kind of in the middle, which. Is sometimes you get a car for business use, debt for that. Sometimes you get equipment for it. It's not necessarily bringing cash flow, but it's growing your business and it's keeping you going and moving forward. So I consider those things to be neutral. And probably the most important thing on this slide right here is the rate does not matter. The rate at the money that you get for your loan doesn't make any bit of difference. I don't care what the rate is. I care what the debt service is. It's about after I pay that monthly bill for the debt, what's left over to pay all the expenses and whatever. I don't care if the interest is 25% of course, I want the best deal, but if I am able to buy an asset with 25% interest and I still cash flow 10, 15,000 a month, is that worth it? Yeah, yeah, it's worth it, and you can always refinance. Let's see. About two and a half years ago, when the interest rates were super high, people didn't want to buy investment. Properties. That's when I was looking for investment properties. Hardcore I was. I was looking for any property that I could find that would cash flow, because the rates were like, 8.2 8.3 8.1 and if you can find a property that cash flows at those numbers, fast forward two years refinance that thing, and you're really cash flowing at this point. I just refinanced an 8.2 interest rate yesterday. Now for 6.5 it was cash flowing, then it's really cash flowing now, because it doesn't matter what the rate is, as long as you find the right deal, and that rate and the number was just keeping people from even looking and that's the problem, because they're scared of debt. They're scared of that interest number when in reality, it was still a good investment even at eight, it was a good investment at like 8.6 it's a barn burner at 6.5 so what you have to ask yourself is, number one, will this create cash flow or equity? Which both those things are bonuses. That's what you're looking for. You're looking for control with equity. You're looking for cash flow, which increases your ability to buy more assets. Number two, can someone service the debt and that person not be me. So if you buy an investment property, can the tenant, all the tenants in there, are they paying the debt for you? They almost become a partner in your investment, a silent partner that has, you know, they just get to use what you're buying, but you own it. And you know, it could be the customer of the business too. You know, the customers are paying down that debt, not you. And even if you're not even making that much money, if you plan to hold it for years and you think it's going to appreciate, especially with real estate, then it's not about the cash flow month to month. It's about what happens in 10 years when you sell it. Or just like, what the example I just gave you? You know, we made money when we refinanced because it's worth $60,000 more than it was two years ago, and we got a much lower rate, and the rents are higher now than they were two years ago. So it's this thing that just kind of snowballs, but you have to have the risk tolerance. I was going to say balls, but you have to have the risk tolerance to just jump in and know when something's a good deal, even when maybe the exogenous factors that are around you point to fear and keep other people from joining in. You know, after 2008 when everything was crashing with real estate, wealthy people were buying everything. Wealthy people that had the money and could get the leverage to buy assets and hold them, people like Donald Trump. That's where Donald Trump made most of his money. Was after the the crash, he bought he he went way leveraged and bought as much real estate as he possibly could. Fast Forward 10 years, sell it for 567, 10 times more than you paid for it, and there you go, billionaire, but he had the guts to be able to do that, regardless of what you think about him. Solid, solid business. Yeah, I mean, but you have to be rich in order to do that when times are hard and that's the problem. The next thing is, does it increase my control or decrease my control, which means control over your own life and control over the asset itself. So are you going to get so leveraged and buy something that you have to work in 50 hours, 60 hours a week, that, to me, that seems like it's less control over your life than you had before? Maybe that's not a good deal, even if it makes a lot of money. To me, it's not worth it, because then you're stuck back in that same rut that your parents were where they work 40 years. And hopefully they can get out of it at some point, enjoy their life, and we're trying to work really hard for five years and then enjoy 30. Five years of your life, right? Where you're still making money because you still have the assets that are bringing money back to you, and for the new people here, you know, watch the decade to decadence. Video it. It'll explain exactly what I'm talking about, where you can work five to 10 years really hard, and then you're set for the rest of your life. And it's no joke, it's a real thing. So what about business owners? So business owners use debt to they get it from the bank. It goes to you. You buy the asset, the asset cash flows, you pay the payment, and then what's left over comes to you. It's pretty straightforward, but debt builds income, not stress, if you're if you're not, I keep saying risk tolerant, but also if you can't handle stress, if you can't handle ups and downs in in real estate, if you can't handle ups and downs in stocks, then maybe this isn't the life for you. So just know that just because you buy a good cash flowing business doesn't mean it's going to cash flow every single month. It doesn't mean that it's going to always grow. Things are going to happen. You're going to lose employees, you're going to have problems. You have to be able to overcome those problems and solve those problems. There's a reason why only 16% of the American public will ever own a business, because it's not easy, and a lot of people want to just go to work come home, you know, you clock out and you never think about it again, you know. And that's fine as a business owner, though you generally have to put more time and effort into it than that, at least at the beginning. So just know that's kind of what you're getting into when you buy a business, too. So yeah, it should build income and not stress. So it's the same thing with real estate. You know, the tenant pays the rent, the rent pays the mortgage, the equity grows. It's kind of a snowball effect, but it's a long term burn. It's, you know, I've been using the tagline in my lives, buying business is better than real estate, and it gets people riled up and they want to ask questions about it, but it's real estate is still a good investment because the tenant pays down the debt, which increases your wealth, okay? And then you can stack leverage. So just because you get one loan on an asset doesn't mean that you can't so everybody talks about your debt to income ratio. Well, how can you keep getting loans year after year because your debt to income ratio? You know you're going to have all this debt, all this debt. Well, the debt doesn't matter if it makes you money, if it's cash flow positive, it actually increases your debt to income ratio. It makes it look better in the eyes of the bank. So you could have a $500,000 loan for this business, a million dollar loan for this business, a $500,000 for a six Plex or whatever. You've got all of this debt, millions of dollars in debt, but at the end of every month, you have 1000s of dollars, positive, you know, 10s of 1000s, hopefully, then none of that debt to income ratio stuff matters, because you're making money off those and your debt to income ratio looks better than someone who has a regular nine to five that just bought a brand new car and is is in debt on that car. So don't let that spook you either. You borrow, you buy an asset. It cash flows. You build up equity in it. You can refinance, pull money out of that. Use that as a down payment for the next one. It just builds. It snowballs, one to the next, to the next and next. That's how you scale. But you can't do that without leverage. So people always say, Well, what if I lose it? That is a possibility if you if you buy a bad deal, if something really bad happens that you can't overcome, it's possible, but you can't have that mentality. You have to know, you have to be willing to do the work and say, Okay, what if I master it and it makes so much money that my life is completely changed, because that can happen. And if you're just constantly asking, What can go wrong, what can go wrong, what can go wrong without also looking at what can go right, you're also never going to buy anything. It's a it's a double sided coin. You have to keep yourself safe, but stay optimistic. I'm probably, I say I'm a serial entrepreneur, and I'm overly optimistic and overly confident sometimes, but also very diligent, and, you know, I'm willing to do the work. And if a deal is a bad deal, I'll walk and I'll walk quickly so I don't have any problem. I've walked on, you know, probably 50 deals where they look good at the beginning, and then I found some red flags, and I'm like, Nope, I'm not doing this. I'm going to find one that I don't have this feeling about. I'll walk. So you have to be willing to do that too. So the wealthy ask, how not? What if something bad happens? You know if, if something does happen? How will I overcome it? Not if, you know what? If everything falls apart and I lose everything? No, have plans, have backup, have credit available to overcome. You know, lean months, lean weeks. But don't dwell on what could possibly happen. So just remember the risk. Use debt for leverage, not for lifestyle. Okay, you'll see people that just maybe they just now got a good job. And what do they do? The very first thing they do, they're going to buy a bunch of clothes, they go on vacation, and they buy a brand new car. Instead, they could have just waited for two, three years and built up something, use that money to buy an asset that could then fund those things, you know, but not not your regular money that you're making from your job that keeps your family fed. They think, like investors, not consumers. It's just the same thing. It's the difference between an employee and an owner mindset. It's very similar to that. And you chase control, not comfort, because you know, comfort comes in the form of I go and I work. I work at my job. I barely phone it in. I do the bare minimum. I come home, I barely make my bills. And that's the life I want. That's cool. But that's not what we're talking about here, right? We're talking about building a future for for families and building a future that maybe our kids don't have to worry about anything, you know, when they're our age, that kind of thing, talking about legacy building. So, so, yeah, just just look at it this way, when you're looking at businesses, when you're looking at real estate, I think earlier Justin said he was looking at short term rentals. Still a good investment. Whatever it is that you're looking at, you know, find an example of where you can get debt and it can create income. I don't care if it's buying a box of baseball cards or or buying coins or stamps or whatever it is that you're into, you know, where you could maybe get some debt. You could sit on it for a while, or, or, I don't know, you buy 1000 T shirts from China, and you sell, you put a logo on those, and you sell them for 30% more than you paid for them, and it whatever it is. Just think about situations where you can do that. Here's, here's a great example I see on marketplace all the time now, Facebook marketplace, where people are building these racks for storage containers, you know, like the big plastic storage tubs. And they sell them for like, $300 a piece. They hold 15 storage racks, storage containers. I did the math and the amount of money that they have in those is about $25 a piece. I don't know how long it takes them to build them, but I bet it's not very long, probably an hour or two. So you work two hours, put 25 bucks in it, and you get 300 back. That kind of stuff. You could buy those materials on with a credit card. You can pay yourself back, pay off that whatever you know, materials you put in, and you've got 10 of those racks, and you sell them all, that's $3,000 for the month, things like that. So ask yourself, when you make your decision, are you making it over math or emotion? And is, is that emotion holding you back, or is it the actual numbers of the deal? Okay, sorry, I tend to probably talk too fast in these and I throw out a lot of terms and words and stuff. So if you ever have a question, you can always just just blurt it out anytime I'm on a tire rage. Okay, thanks.

Unknown Speaker  28:40
Justin, anybody have any questions?

Speaker 2  28:48
Actually, I had a question. Shane, okay, I'm wondering if, when you are putting down the down payment, if even that sometimes should be other people's money, because there was a guy here in Arizona who it was like 20k down. He was talking about how he put, he partnered on someone with it for a car. It was like a clean carpet cleaning or type thing.

Unknown Speaker  29:14
Yeah. I mean, the the

Speaker 1  29:17
philosophy, the least of your own money that you can use, the better. I totally agree with that. It's just hard to find a deal that will still pencil if you if you put two, if you don't put some of your own skin in the game, like you can do capital stacking. Capital stacking is, is it's very risky, right? Because you have a timeframe, like, Okay, I'm gonna get these cards, I'm going to liquidate these cards, and then the clock is ticking. I have a year or 18 months where I have to get a business and I have to pay this back. You know, that's a lot of pressure, and a lot of things could go wrong in that situation. But if you can pull it off, man, that means that you bought a business and. With no money down of your own, you were able to pay off that debt, pay off those cards, and bring all of that money, you know, keep all of that money that you had, and then you have all this business credit available to you to get you over any storms that come up in the future. So, yeah, I mean, ideally, if you can use someone else's money, or even a silent partner like so I have a partner that I've done a lot of real estate deals with, and he'll bring 75% of the down payment. I'll bring 25% and then my property management company will manage without fees. So I'm not, I'm not, actually, it's not cost chart cost me any money to do this because the infrastructure is already in place, so I'm able to get an asset for a quarter of what it normally would cost me. So yeah, I mean, if you can do that, it's just hard to find those deals. But there are people out there that have way more money than time and experience and are willing to put their money out, out into the world to make it work, use gap to find them.

Speaker 2  31:05
Okay, that's helpful. Because, yeah, I was wondering, like, I feel like I could do it myself. There are people I'm meeting here in Phoenix, but yeah, I was just wondering if it's should all be other people's money. But that makes sense. It just depends on the Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  31:21
Yeah. I mean, most people, and let until you're established, you're not going to find somebody that's going to say, hell, here's 100,000 hope it works out. I mean, it'd be great if, if you had an uncle or somebody that would do that. It's just most people. It's just hard to find those people. Yeah, yeah. Ernie post question in the in the in the chat, the picture of those racks. See how simple that is. It's a brilliant idea. And those people are probably it's a great side hustle, probably making 1000s of dollars a month. I bought one, and that's how I know. And I talked, I asked the guy who was making him I said, How many of these you sell a month? He said 10 to 15 for 300 a piece. And he was an airline pilot. And when he came home on the weekends, he him and his son would make these in his in the garage. They had a full, a whole garage full of them.

Unknown Speaker  32:15
Yeah, it was impressive. I

Speaker 3  32:23
Anyone else have any questions? I had a quick question, kind of going off the same thing about using your own capital, in a sense, because I was watching your video about buying, like a rental property, and one of those options would be, like your own funding. Is that like to, like, kind of do repairs and build the equity higher on the property, set it use your own capital, or you would still try to get funding for something like that.

Speaker 1  32:49
Well, I mean, that's almost a perfect example of where you can use capital stacking. That's less risky because you're you've already so even if you just have a business like it's easy to get one business credit card for $25,000 if you have a decent personal credit profile pre, you can get a chase sapphire business card. Those things come at least, let's say, a bare minimum, 15, 17,000 that finances a lot of repairs, right there, if you find a property that needs, you know, maybe 20,000 in repairs. There you go. You bought the property, you did the repairs, and you sell it that way, and you have a year to pay that off without any debt, if you just get the card at the beginning of the purchase. So, yeah, I mean, that's ideally, you know, you keep your own money. You put it on the card, and you you get the points for all the stuff that you bought. You go to Menards or a place like that that gives you rebates, and you get 11% rebates on that $20,000 worth of materials that you paid for. And there's it just all compounds on itself. Yeah, I would much rather use a credit card for that stuff than my own money.

Unknown Speaker  34:17
Okay, in this I'm gonna go to the mentorship.
