Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday, June 12, 2025 tonight, we're going to be talking about general investing and just the traditional path to retirement accounts. And I think some of the things that maybe some gray area that people don't understand, and some of the nuance between retirement accounts, I think people don't understand them, and it causes them to not invest when they should invest, just because they just don't know what it means. So let's get into this. Okay, so everybody likes my my little funny cover there, but so what we're going to talk about tonight is first is 401, KS, then IRAs, index funds, ETFs, mutual funds and stocks. I know that people consider that to be a little boring and a little ordinary, but it's still good to understand what this stuff means, because, you know, we're all we're all looking for cash flow. We're all looking for assets that bring us stability and bring us passive income. The most passive income you're ever going to get are from investments like this, and at the same time, they can also be great strategies to reduce how much you pay in taxes. So we'll start with a 401 K. I think everybody knows what a 401 k is, or has an idea of what it is, but I've heard some some people on social media say that 401 ks were created after the Great Depression, because nobody, because people weren't What did he say? People weren't confident in investing in stocks themselves? Well, that's crap. That's not what happened. So in the 70s, just one random economist noticed that in the IRS code there was a section called 401, K that could possibly be exploited to invest without paying taxes first. So you can take the money out of your your paycheck, invest it and not have to pay taxes on it. And you could keep investing, keep investing, selling and selling and buying, selling and buying, and then at the end of it, when you pulled it out, then you could pay taxes on it. So the IRS later came back around and said, Yeah, we're going to clarify that this is actually legal and it's fine. So that's, that's where it actually came from. So a 401 K comes from your employer, though, so they set up a 401 K for their employees. You can invest in there. And like I said, it's tax deferred. So that means that when you get paid, they take the whatever contribution that you decide you want to put into your 401, K, it comes out before they take your taxes out. So whatever percentage is coming out of your paycheck, that's reduced. So the amount that you pay in taxes is also reduced. And at the end of the year, when you're coming up with all your numbers and everything, if you have contributed your max, which in this year is 23,000 that means that if, if you made 100,000 this year, you're actually only going to pay taxes on the 77,000 because it comes out. And now, with that said, you know, there is a limit. That's the max that you can put in. You can't put more than that in the they won't allow you to do that. And a lot of employers have a match. If your employer has a match of, like, one, two, 3% you should absolutely be using that match. That's free money, right? So you put in 3% they put in 3% they're giving you 3% return on your money. They're doubling your money right then and there. So at the very least you should, you should definitely be doing that. And also, I better preface this by saying I'm not, I can't give you advice on what stocks to buy and what investment, investment accounts. All this stuff is just hypothetical, and what I do, you know, whatever you choose to do is up to you. And then you also with a four, 1k that's really cool is you can borrow from it most of the time, not all 401 k is it? It depends on how they're set up, but you can get a loan against it. It also counts on your net worth when you're trying to, let's see, I'm gonna have to escape from here so I can let patients in, okay? But it also helps on your your net worth numbers. It all counts. So when you have to meet net worth numbers to open a new franchise, or maybe for the SBA, for seller financing requirements, any of that kind of stuff like you, it helps you there. Okay, so that's the four. K now an IRA is very similar, but it's opened by you individually. So IRA is an investment retirement or an individual retirement account, and the only requirement is that you have to have some kind of earned income. If you're not making any money at all, you can't just open an IRA. It's only on money. You know, you earn income, you have a job of some sort, and then you can open one and contribute. It's a lot smaller. You can only put 7000 in it as of 2025 you can't take loans out against it. And then the Roth itself, which the different I'm going to talk about that in a second, the difference between a Roth and a regular IRA and the difference between a Roth 401, K and a regular 401, K, we'll talk about that. But in this instance, you you can only open a Roth IRA if your income is less than a certain amount. I don't that that amount changes from year to year, but once you reach a certain threshold, you can't start and open a Roth IRA. One cool thing about an IRA, though, is you have more direction over the investment itself. So you can even have a self directed IRA that you choose to invest it however you see fit. So you can put money in there. And you can actually use a self directed IRA to buy real estate. You can use it to invest in stocks. You can use it to invest in all kinds of different things, but you are directing it yourself. If that's what you choose, you can also have them direct it for you. They have different packages that you can you can choose, and you can just open an IRA at just about any financial institution, all your big banks, all your platforms that you sell, that you can buy and trade stocks. A lot of those have them, and they're very, very common. So let's talk about the difference between the 401 K and Ira. So we already talked about, you know, your employer opens a 401 K, you can personally open an IRA, contribution limits are different. There's no employer contributions in an IRA because they have nothing to do with it. It's a it's a personal thing. Both of them are the taxes are treated the same way, whether it's a Roth or not a traditional the the income limits only matter for Roth IRA, not Roth 401 K. There are minimum required distributions, which means that, like, if you have a 401 K, and you're 73, year years old, you have to start taking money out of it. You can't just keep it in there. You can do the loans on the 401 but you can't IRA. They both have the same penalties if you want to withdraw money sooner. So if you want to draw money, you know you're going to pay 10% before you're 59 and then they also have, like, some some fees. In addition to that most funds do, so there's a premium to actually get money out of there, and IRAs have a lot of protection. So now let's talk about the Roth versus the traditional so what, what we're talking about is the timing of the taxes. So with a traditional account, you're going to be taking the money out of your check in, investing it and not paying any taxes until you pull it out. When you pull that money out, then you're going to owe taxes on it with a Roth. You pay taxes up front, and then, you know, 2030, years from now, whenever you plan on taking it out, you don't pay anything in taxes when you take it out. That's the difference there between the Roth and the traditional So people always want to know, like, what? Why would I choose one over the other? And really it comes down to whether or not you think your taxes are going to be higher or lower when you retire. Do you think that the nation's taxes are going to be higher or lower? Do you think that you personally are going to be in a higher or lower tax bracket? I think for most people, most of us, we're hoping that when we reach retirement age, that we have, you know, accumulated enough income and enough wealth that we probably will be paying more in taxes then. So if that is the case, then a Roth might be, might be the way to go. So at least for the 401 k, if you have that choice. But a lot of companies don't offer a Roth 401 K. It's pretty rare. I don't think I've ever been offered that at any job that I've ever had, just traditional 401 Ks. Okay, so now let's talk about just some regular investing and all the boring stuff that nobody likes, which are stocks, index funds, mutual funds, ETFs, and then choosing individual stocks. So we'll start with with index funds. So an index fund is it just tracks the market index. So a market index could be the Dow, it could be the s p5, 100, which is like the 500 largest companies in the US. It could be the NAS. Act 100 which is the same thing, the 100 strongest companies that are listed on the NASDAQ, which tends to be more tech heavy, and it's just, it's just a swath of those stocks, and it goes right along with the market returns. So if the Dow increased by 1% today. Then you have an index fund that tracks the Dow. Your index fund increased by 1% there's low fees, there's very little management, so there's not a lot of trading, there's not a lot of moving going around. You know, the s and p5 100 doesn't change as much as as you would think. You would think, you know, those 500 strongest companies, there's a whole process for replacing, you know, an up and coming company gets really huge, and maybe one of the old 500 companies is is waning, and they get replaced. But it's not as often as you think. So. Some examples of that we've talked about many times is VO, which is a Vanguard fund, the s, p5, 100, the spider and Q, Q, Q, which is, I think, Invesco, those are index funds that are exchange traded. We'll talk about what that means to be exchange traded. So a mutual fund is different than an index fund, because for one it's traded, or you it's not openly traded. You have to go through a financial institution generally to get a mutual fund. So they're pooling a whole bunch of investors money together, and then they buy a portfolio of stocks, they buy and sell, buy and sell, and it's managed by a trading professional who's trying to beat those market returns that we talked about with the index fund. And sometimes they do, sometimes they don't, but it comes with a lot higher fees. And what you'll find is that the the institution that has a mutual fund, and whoever is the professional that's managing it, make a lot of money, but you might not make a lot of money. So you have to be careful with those because those high fees and that frequent trading, even if they're making smart trades, it might lessen your overall returns because they're charging for those trades. They're, you know, there's a lot going on in management fees and all that stuff, and it's less tax efficient because there's some capital gain stuff that goes on sometimes, you know, if they, if they bought and sold something within a year, like there's, there's a lot to that can knock out your high returns on those mutual funds, even if it's a really, really smart, professional trader that's managing it now an ETF, an ETF just means that it's an exchange traded fund. That means that you can go to the, you know, the NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange. You can go to any brokerage place like Robin Hood, or,

Unknown Speaker  12:59
let me see if I can. I got somebody else that wants to come in. Okay, what's going on?

Speaker 1  13:19
Okay, now think we're back. Sorry, that's why the the waiting room thing, it makes it harder to do the presentation. I'm probably gonna have to change that back. But anyway, okay, let's keep going. So let's see. Sorry for the delay and we're back. Okay, so we're talking about the exchange traded funds. So that means that that those examples that I gave you earlier, the QQ, Spy, VO, those are openly traded on an exchange. So you can go to Robin Hood, you can go to so far, you can go to any of those brokerage sites and and openly just buy one share you could. So I always just want one share or a percentage of a share, you know, because I think, like, the VO is, like, around $500 but you can say, give me $5 worth of one share, and you can do that they're very low fees. It's the most tax efficient investment type is the ETFs. And it could be an index fund that is exchange traded, but it's not going to be a mutual fund. Those are different investment vehicles. That's just that's not how that works now individual stocks, that just means that you can if you feel like you're a gambler or you really love a company and you want to just continue to invest in that. Single one company. It can be feast or famine, but it can, it can really work. So for instance, Apple, if you would have started investing in Apple even late, even 10 years ago, it would be it, you know, wildly lucrative. It would have beat the market by, I don't like 1020, fold, for sure, and a lot of individual stocks, but also the funds will also give you dividends. But a dividend is just the stock itself. Says, Okay, we're quarterly. We're going to give you this much for every share, and that can go up and down. They adjust it if they have higher profits for the quarter, you know, they project lower profits, whatever. It goes up and down. But you can take those dividends, and if you if they pay the dividends, you have to pay capital gains taxes on them. But if you reinvest them, and with a dividend reinvestment plan, which all brokerage houses will allow you to do that as well, then you don't have to pay the taxes on there, just goes right back. So it's almost like compound interest in addition to what it's already earning. So you just have to figure out what you want to do, but you need to be investing in something. I know we're all saving and we want we're trying to get a down payment for businesses and real estate, but you should still be investing. There's nothing like investing long term, especially in stocks, index funds, mutual funds, you know, over a span of 1520, 30 years. Or, you know, if there's some really young people that are watching this, like 35 years, 40 years, it is amazing how much wealth can be accumulated by investing in stocks early and often time in the market beats timing the market. So you're better off to just consistently invest no matter what is going on. And we'll talk about what that means, because if you just hold on to your money, if you have $1,000 right now, and you just take it and put it in your backyard and bury it a year from now, the way that that the economy generally works, it's going to be worth less money than it is today. Yeah, it's still $1,000 but what you can buy with it, because of inflation, is less. So you might have been able to buy 100 widgets with it today, but if you bury it and you dig it up a year from now, you can only buy 98 widgets next year. That's just how it works. That's how inflation works. So this is a good way to hedge your bets against inflation, at least.

Unknown Speaker  17:41
So here's what I always tell people to do.

Speaker 1  17:45
You have your check you you know you've got your your regular job. You know about how much you're making. You know every two weeks or monthly, or weekly, or whatever, say, before you pay your bills, before you decide to do anything, pay yourself first, take a little bit of money out, and you can put it into whatever you decide to put it into. And I would recommend that you dollar cost average, which means, okay, I'm going to make a decision that I'm going to put with every paycheck that I get. I'm going to put $100 into Q, Q, Q. I don't care what QQ is doing. I don't care what the economy is doing. I'm going to put $100 no matter what. And the good thing about that is it reduces your risk, because if you just said, Okay, I'm going to put a one time investment of $10,000 in a QQ, and you get it on an off day then, or like, a really expensive day, and the bottom drops out of it the next day, you've lost money overnight. But if you spread that out, it smooths the volatility, it reduces your risk, and it also prevents you from making an emotional trade. You know, if you think, Well, you know, it's high right now, I think it's going to get really, really high, I'm going to go ahead and just buy a big chunk of it. You know, no one knows what's going to happen with stocks. Every you know, people spend their lifetimes trying to figure it out. And the only one takeaway is that, if you're in there for long enough, and you're diversified, then you make money. Just be consistent with your dividends. You're better off to reinvest them than you are to, you know, take those out and use those for anything, reinvest them into the same stock, so you don't have to pay those taxes. And think long term. This is not a short term game, at least not not what we're talking about tonight. Now, you could be a day trader, and you can, you know, drink Pepto Bismol all day and be stressed out and trading futures and all that stuff that if that's what you're into, that's cool. It's not really my jam, but I understand. You know that you can make money doing that if it's something that you love. But most importantly, just start. I don't care if it's $5 you know, most of the brokerage places you can put like $1 You can buy $1 of apple today, $1 you know, just start somewhere and start as soon as you can. So the takeaways from this are, you know, if you have a match, an employee match on your 401, K, you should at least be doing that, because it's free money. If you don't have a 401, k, then you can start your own IRA, if you

Unknown Speaker  20:30
want to, you can actually do both. You don't have to

Unknown Speaker  20:34
not do both.

Speaker 1  20:37
I mean, you don't have to do both, but you can. So let me I'm going to move this around so we don't have to go through that. Then there we go. Okay, so you can, you can have both, if you want to. You can choose investments based on your goals and your risk. If you're a risk taker and you want to try to do a lottery ticket and you think that Tesla is going to go through the moon in the next 10 years, and everybody's going to have a personal helper robot, and we're going to be living on Mars, and whatever, whatever the company's vision is, if you think that's where it's going to go, okay, but don't invest what you can't afford to lose in those situations. Same thing with crypto. You can dollar cost average into crypto. I you know, but just know that you're taking huge risks and don't invest in anything is very volatile, unless you can stand to lose it all. If you can afford that, and you feel like you know you want to swing for the fences, okay, but if the bottom falls out of it, then you know. Just know that was, that was a risk. Understand the fees and the taxes at the end of the year. Let me tell you what this is. This is kind of a Midwestern example. Large farmers in the Midwest will do several things when it comes to reducing their taxes. They'll go to their accountant toward the end of the year, the accountant will go through their numbers, and they'll say, hey, you need to either buy this much equipment, you need to put this much in a healthcare savings account. You need to put this much in an IRA like they'll say, hey, take this money and do something that's going to benefit you, or your your farm or whatever. As opposed to, when we have to file your taxes, you're just going to have to give it to the federal government. You federal government. So this is one of those strategies where you're paying yourself and not the government, if you use accounts like this, because you can reduce your tax burden. So it just depends on where you're at, personally, financially right now, and where you think you're going to be, 20, 3040, whenever you're going to retire that many years away, but start early and invest regularly. So here's here's something else. Here's just some examples, right? So we've talked about this before in some other classes, but I think this, this kind of gives you an idea of the possibilities if you just take and so the Vanguard fund, VO, the average rate of return is 14% from its inception. And actually it's this year has really pulled it down, because the tariffs tanked the stock market for a long time. So it, it, you know, everything took a hit. It's, it's kind of, you know, chipped its way back up now. But the 14 is really good, 14% yearly over this many years. If you put $200 a month, and you start right now, and the returns are pretty consistent. At about 14, you have over 100 grand in 15 years. You have over 200 grand in 20 years, and you have over 900 in 30 years. So if you're, if you're young, and you can afford to put 200 out there, that is life changing money right there that you just otherwise wouldn't even think about it, that most, a lot of people pay more than that for streaming services or their phones or whatever, like, you know Can, can you not do the full net Netflix subscription and get $500,000 in 30 years. That seems worth it. So just remember that like it's about when you start and how long you do it, and how consistent you are with it, okay, and to actually go through. And if you want to just crunch these numbers yourself. You can get the the rate of return. You can just Google this stuff and see, you know what, what is the rate of return on Vanguard? Just take you right to the Vanguard site. You can see all their numbers. You can see the consistency of it, five years, 10 years. I mean, five years, it's, it's even better. So you know, you might even be able to do better than that. And then this is a really great investment. If you just go to calculator.net, to their investment calculator, you can figure out all this stuff, like I'm going to put I've got 500 bucks I'm going to put in initially, and then I'm going to put $100 every month. Month, and the rate of return is 14. So it's going to give. Let's do that. So let's say you have $1,000 and you want to know what it's going to be worth after 10 years, and we're going to go with the annual rate of return of 14, and you're going to contribute $100 after that, what's it going to be in 10 years? It's going to be 28,000 into in 10 years, from 1000 down and 100 bucks a month. So you can just figure out, like, what your goal is, what you want to do with it, and then strategize for yourself to try to meet those goals. Does all that make sense? It was a lot of information, and I know it was boring, sorry, but it's very important. And like does, who right now, in the in the in the group, who has a 401 K with their employer, you guys have 401 K's, no anybody?

Speaker 2  26:01
Well, I did have one with my previous employer, but as of February, I no longer work at that company, so I rolled it over into my IRA, okay,

Speaker 1  26:11
okay, did you have to pay fees for that? Or was it not too bad? Nope, not to roll over. Okay, cool. Were you getting a match from your employer

Unknown Speaker  26:22
cheap? No,

Speaker 1  26:24
yeah, that's pretty common these days, but it's also as a business owner, if you, if you get a large business where you're going to you're going to have a 401 K's, and you're going to do that kind of stuff, what you can do is you can do employee matches based on how long they're there. So you can say, I will match 3% but if you leave in three years, we were going to take all that back that match, you know. But if you stay for three years, you get 50% if you stay for five years, you get 100% of that. There's, there's a lot of ways to retain good employees, like, like. So my wife has that situation now where she has to be at her current job for five years to get her full vested match. So a lot of companies do that. It's pretty common these days. That's a really good idea. It definitely works. It definitely works, because I think, I think she probably is going to stop working. You know, she's been thinking about it, and it's keeping her working till at least August, because that's when her five years is and all of it vests. So it makes sense

Speaker 2  27:37
any type of like little monetary incentives, like little little easter eggs along the way. I think just motivate people

Speaker 1  27:45
absolutely. It's huge. Okay. Does

Unknown Speaker  27:51
anybody have any questions?

Unknown Speaker  27:58
Have you like, had any experience

Speaker 3  28:03
by using, like Rob's structure to purchase a business, because this was new to me, and I think I heard that the term from the owner's actions before I just did some research, and it has its own, like downsides, right? By using that tool instead of using cash,

Speaker 1  28:22
yeah, I haven't. So are you? Are you saying so by owner actions? So are you the, are you talking about using the life insurance thing? Or did you say

Speaker 3  28:33
the 401? K, like, I think they you basically, you pull the phones right, and you use the you probably create like entity, and you roll over the funds to that entity and then use that for the down payment.

Speaker 1  28:48
Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, you have to pay a lot of penalties when you do that. Now, if you have a self directed IRA, that's how if you if that's like a strategy that you want to do in the future, self directed IRA is the way to go for that, especially for real estate, because you can start contributing now, and you can do essentially whatever you want with that, with the money in that IRA, as long as it's obviously legitimate. You know you can't, you know you can't just, I don't know you got, you can't do something fraudulent or whatever. But a lot of people use it to buy real estate, that's that's something that happens quite often. Okay, got it. Thanks, Keith,

Speaker 4  29:29
yeah, to kind of piggyback off of that. So with the self direct, self directed IRA, is that also going to reduce as a business owner? Is that going to reduce a tax liability as well, too, especially in real estate, yeah?

Speaker 1  29:42
Because it's, it's pre tax, pre tax. Oh, you're not, you're pulling it out before your your taxes are calculated. So, yeah, yeah, definitely now. But that also means, if you so it's all in, in the name of, it's the IRA owns it. So, so if you buy a single family home, the IRA owns that. That all the income that's that's made from it goes back into the IRA. It doesn't go into your pocket, you know?

Unknown Speaker  30:06
Oh, okay, for, oh, interesting, good to know,

Speaker 1  30:09
yeah, because it's, it's an investment in there. It's not, you can't, you can't use it as a way to get a non tax down payment. But if you're, if you're good, if you already have some other stuff going on, you can, you can cycle it through the self directed IRA like that.

Speaker 4  30:26
Okay, when you sell it, like you stop outside, like income coming in from outside the business, yeah, yeah. Okay, got it just to lower your tax liability,

Unknown Speaker  30:36
yep. Okay, cool. Thank you. Do.

Speaker 1  30:43
Okay, anybody else have any questions on this, this topic? Okay, so, mm.
