Speaker 1  00:03
Shane, hello everyone. This is the money Language Academy. I'm Shane. We're going to be talking tonight about the buying a business from beginning to end. That's that's our topic. So we're going to tie together some of the other videos, some of the other posts and things that that we've talked about, and some, you know, we got into a lot of the details. So I wanted to do kind of a macro level of, you know, this process from beginning to end, so from search all the way to sale, and just kind of take you through the steps that it requires. We had some people ask for, for, you know, for this, for guidance, like as they're starting out. So I think it's a good time to kind of take a step back, and we will get into some additional details that I don't think that have been covered yet, but some of this will be very familiar and touched on in greater detail in some of the other videos. But I think it's definitely going to be beneficial, though. So let's go. Okay, so I want to you know preface this by saying that this is, this is kind of how I do it. There's a lot of different ways that people do it, and with different systems, it depends on the size of the business. You know, you have big acquisitions that happen from, you know, huge corporations. They don't that don't look anything like this. And then you have, you know, small business acquirers that that also have just a little bit different of a process, like steps in their process, but the end results are basically the same and the steps are the same. It's just maybe the order in which they do them might differ a little bit. But so we're going to talk about, you know, the full process. Find it, evaluate it, finance it, buy it, and hopefully avoid some common mistakes that I've seen people make, whether it's dealing with an owner or overlooking financials, that can be a red flag. There's so many snares that can get you, and that's why you know you have to be super diligent, and you have to be willing to put in the work to keep yourself safe, and then hopefully you'll come out of this, wherever you are in this journey, with some actionable steps to where, you know, where you're going, for, you know, A, B, C, D, E, you know, playing, playing that tape all the way out. So the first thing is, you know, we always talk about, you know, go on the business listing sites and start looking, but that can be overwhelming, so you need to at least start with some sort of a Buy Box of what you're looking for. So if it's a business type or industry, you know, we always talk about recession resistant, but just, you know, maybe you're really into cars and auto repair might be the way. Maybe you are have done some woodworking or something, and you think maybe a cabinet shop, or, you know, whatever it is that that you're interested in, it could be tech. Maybe you're really good with technology. What, whatever, as long as it's a, it's a business that, if the economy turns it's still going to be viable, right? You don't want to get into a situation like I'll give you an example. I went to it's a it's a place that's called precision, power and water sports or something yesterday. And they have, like, almost a whole field of ATVs, these expensive ATVs that are, like, 30 and 40,000 and they are from last year and the year before, because the economy has been shaky. So people aren't buying those. You know, people get spooked. They don't buy recreational vehicles. They don't go on vacations as much as they used to like that kind of stuff. So that's why we say recession resistant. You don't want to buy a business that was great in 2021 when the economy was, was really, you know, jumping after the pandemic, and, you know, end up with something right now, when we might go into a recession, that you can't sell the inventory and you're just in big trouble. So that's, that's why we say that. Now, the the price, you know, I've said it before, the 350 to 5 million is kind of the sweet spot. Now, every bank is different. As you know we talked about, as Tran was talking about earlier, that bank has completely different rules than some of the other ones. But as far as the SBA is concerned, when you're in that 350 to five 5 million, like it's, it's, will easily allow you to do the 10% down. So, but bank to bank, it's different. So, but that's that's kind of the sweet spot there. And then you have to know whether or not you're willing to work at the business, how much time you have to dedicate to it, or if you're looking for something that's already absentee, or that you want to turn to absent. And T What's your model? Maybe you just don't like your current job, and you would like to buy a business that you can work in and make a lot of extra income, but be an owner operator. That's totally fine if that's your goal, but just know what it is going into it ahead of time, and also know that if it's truly absentee right now, it's going to be a little bit more expensive. The multiple will be a little higher, because so many people are looking for truly absentee, you know, where it's already set up and ready to go as absentee. So we've been through this, you know, many times I went ahead and put it here. You know, where do you find these businesses? Those are links I'm going to, I'll put this in a PDF, this and into the actual classroom. So you'll be able to click on these links and get the top 10 site and then the mega list, and you can just start looking from there. Now, the initial screening we've talked about this many times, but it's all about the the cash flow, or the EBITDA. And cash flow is, is that SDE, right here stands for seller discretionary earnings. So it's basically the same thing as the cash flow. It's when, at the end of the year, what the seller takes home, right? And there's, there's couple different definitions of cash flow, but that's the most widely want, widely used term, is it's the same thing as the ultimate profit of the business. And then EBITDA is Earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization. So that's the earnings that come in before any loans, before income taxes, and before you deduct for depreciation if there's real estate involved, or equipment or whatever. And I put revenue and I in italics here because it's not as important. I hardly look at revenue unless I think there's something, something amiss about the listing. You know, maybe the cash flow is too good or just something, you know, then I'll dig into the revenue. And it's about the asking price versus the valuation we talked about. You know, many times that three multiple the asking price times three, needs to be more than what they're asking for. And you're looking for those red flags in there, like whether or not you know like they're going to go to a different industry, or another business is taking too much of their time, stuff like that, and be ready to sign an NDA when you reach out to them. So that's that's normal operating procedures for most of these unless you're on, you know, Facebook marketplace and dealing with an owner, then they still might want you to, but it's pretty much standard, especially if a broker's involved, and all this stuff has broken down in detail in the Fab Five video, and there's the link to that. So the first contact, so whether this is with the broker or with the owner directly, if it's owner listed, doesn't really matter. But you want to use this might seem a little strange, but you want to use your personal email if you have an LLC and it has, you know, Bob at my business, calm. That's great when you're going for funding, but the brokers would prefer you to use your personal email, and I that's a mistake that I made at the beginning. I was doing everything in my business email, and I really don't understand necessarily why, but several brokers have told me that it's a red flag when someone uses a business email, so I'm kind of shocked about that, but ever since then, I've been using just my personal email, and I've gotten pretty good results, but it better not be something weird, like, I don't know, Hot Lips, 40 two@gmail.com you Know, it needs to be something professional, your name or the equivalent. And just, just watch the weird names, and you just basically reach out and say, I'm interested in acquiring this business in the next 90 280 days, and I'd like to learn more about it. You know, very simple and to the point. And just hopefully they will get back to you, and you're always professional if they call you, you know, be prepared to take that call. Be be ready to just, you know, put, put your, I don't know your professional voice on your professional just act like you are confident, you've looked into this business, and you're a serious buyer. You're not somebody that's just out there looking and trying to test drive stuff and get a little excitement and move on. So always be polished, especially with brokers. Brokers are going to take one bad thing you say and judge you by it for the rest of the time that you deal with them. Might not be a deal breaker, but it's going to, it's going to stand in your way. And they're going to probably look at your social media. They're going to look at, you know, anything that you have out there to see what kind of person you are. Are you in business? Or when they go on Facebook and look you up? Is it, you know, all kinds of crazy. And parties and whatever, then they're not going to take you seriously. All that stuff matters these days. It's not just about, you know, what you can say over the phone, and the minimum you need to move forward is, you know, three years of tax returns, three years of profit and loss statements, and a year to date statement, so that obviously the tax returns, that just makes perfect sense, you want to know what they're recording to the government as how much they're making, the profit and losses are compared against those tax returns, and then the year to date just tells you, like, so we're, you know, it's, it's May right now, and it's going to tell you how good the business has been doing since January of this year. And again, they're going to probably, if they haven't asked you for an NDA already, they will, at this point, for sure, because you're getting, you know, you might, if it's an LLC, that's a single member LLC, you're going to get tax returns that might have a social security number on there. It might be redacted, but it might not be. So that kind of stuff matters. This is when you make your first pass at due diligence. So you have these documents, you have the tax returns, you have everything. So what you're doing is you're verifying what you saw on the listing with what is in the P and L, and you're verifying what's in the P and L by what's on the tax returns. Okay, so you want to make sure the cash flow numbers that they have, you want to you should know how they derived those cash flow numbers or that EBITDA on that listing. And then if the numbers for the profit on the tax return are different than the profit and loss statement, then you need to be able to figure out why that is, and that's not something that we can really get into right now. That'll be next week's class. I will. We'll break down some tax returns and some p and l's and just kind of show you how those things can differ and why. But it's all about add backs, and I'll just give you a little brief introduction to an ad back that could be maybe the owner has a vehicle financed through, you know, leased, possibly through the business, and they drive it. Well, the money that they pay on that lease every single month should not come out of the cash flow of the business, because when the owner leaves, that debt also leaves. So you know, you're not going to assume that debt unless you specifically negotiate to get that vehicle or something like that. So, I mean, that's that's theirs, so things like that are considered add backs, and yeah, we'll get into it probably next week. Now, you also need to make sure at this point that your buyer profile is up to snuff. So it's not like when you buy real estate. When you buy real estate, all you have to do is have the right financing, and they don't care who you are. You could, you know, you could be just someone walking in with a check from a bank and be a terrible person, and, you know, just like the worst in the world, and they don't care, because the you're you're going to, you're going to actually land that deal with the business. It's different. The owners are concerned about their employees. They're concerned about the future, their legacy, all that stuff. They can tell you, no, just because they don't like you, you could bring the full deal and everything, and they could just say, Nope, you know, there's nothing stopping them from refusing any deal. And you know, they might be able to come up with with some kind of a reason, if they had to for, you know, a lawsuit or something. But basically, you know, you have to agree that you want to buy it, and they have to agree that they want to sell it to you specifically. And so by that buyer profile, I mean, you know, if you have a good resume, you know, you might be able to submit it to the broker. This is especially true for brokers, because a broker wants to know, Are you a legit player? Are you someone who can be taken seriously? And then, if you have relevant experience, you don't have to, but it helps. It just makes the owner feel more at ease, even if it's not like, you know, say, for instance, if it's auto repair, you know, you've done a lot of your own stuff. You handle maintenance on your own. You've whatever you grew up with, with cars and doing your own, you know, customizations. You know, you don't have to be a master mechanic, but that kind of stuff is very helpful. And then you might be asked to include proof of funds, especially by a broker. So we have a proof of funds template out there. And hopefully, you know, if you're to this point already, you are at a position where you can actually take action anyway and you're ready. So we've talked about capital stacking before we've talked about seasoning that money and getting it ready, or, in the case you know that we've already seen tonight, he lock whatever it is, but just basically showing them that, hey, if the owner wants to sell it to you and you want to buy it, that you can actually land that deal with the financing. Yeah. And then you get exclusive. So that's when the letter of intent comes around. So a letter of intent is, it's, it's a non binding agreement that that you sign, and the seller signs. There's a template out there. I can kind of let me see. I'll show you what it looks like. Maybe. Okay, here it is. Okay, everybody see that? Okay, so it's just standard. I like to put a letterhead, you know, like you're, if you have an LLC, you can put a little logo up there to make it look official. And it's basically saying, I'm, you know, I have an intent to look at your business further. I'm interested in buying it. You kind of put a time frame in there. You put a range. Now, this is where I differ a little bit from, from other people, where I put a range of, you know, from anywhere from here to here. Other people will use this as a chance to negotiate and put one number in there, and you go back and forth and negotiate at this point, I'd prefer to wait until I dig in and just give them a range first. And you're not, you're not actually held to this anyway. It's it's non binding, and you basically outline what you need to see to do your due diligence for this business. You know you want to see, you know all the tax documents. You want to see, all that. And you know you want to access to the employees. You know you want 90 days of exclusivity so that they can't shop it out to someone else who's gonna try to compete and bid against you, that kind of stuff. Closing Date, you know all that. And you know it says non binding several times through this. And it's just kind of common practice that this is non binding. Back to it

Speaker 2  17:02
for the for the range. Do you typically go like a like below and above? And I know it's probably subject to the business, but do you offer just to kind of make it more competitive, higher than the asking price?

Speaker 1  17:17
No, I don't. I never have. I think it would be okay to do that, but I don't want to even make them think that I'd be willing to pay more. Generally, what they have as what they're selling it for is way more than they think they'll get for it. Generally, it's just like, if you, you know, you're going to sell a car, you put you listed at 20,000 you expect to get 18, or, you know, 19 or whatever. It's the same kind of thing. So no, I generally like, if they're asking 500,000 I'll say a range of 450, to 500 because I've already looked at the numbers, and I already, I've already had the tax returns, so I know the concrete numbers, so I can, I can show that range, and if it's way less, you know, but I still think it's a good business. I might not even go up to their highest number. But, yeah, I've never gone over that number.

Unknown Speaker  18:12
That's a great question, though.

Speaker 1  18:16
Okay, so after you do the letter of intent, both parties signed. That's when your official due diligence period begins. Like you're you have whatever was listed in that, that loi that 90 days, then you can get in. You can dig into everything. You can request documents. You can request payroll records, stuff like that. They might redact social security numbers, obviously, things like that. There's going to be some things that they might not want you to do. They might not want you to get in there and mess with the employees too much, to where they get spooked and feel like, you know the business is being sold and they're going to lose their job, or you know that it's it's all dependent upon the owner and what the owner feels comfortable and allowing you to do. But as far as financial records, you should have full reign of all financial records to be able to look at everything you need to know to make sure the deal is what you think it is. So you may, at this point, have already been in contact with the owner, but if you haven't, you know, we've talked about this before, too, and by trans story earlier, it's obviously a huge, makes a huge difference that you don't just jump in there and start talking numbers and, you know, seem like Ebenezer Scrooge or somebody, you know, Mister Burns coming in there, trying to take their little company and squeeze all the money out of it. You know, they they're looking for more than that. So if this owner, especially if it's a baby boomer, if they've built this from scratch, they are proud of what they have done, and they have every right to be so you know, a little bit of praise about what they've built. A lot of questions about the history. You know, what made you start this business? In this, you know, how did you build? How did you take it from, you know, nothing to what it is today, that kind of stuff. They love to talk about it, and rightly, they should. And then, you know, just small talk about your family, their family, your motivation for buying a business, which I think most of us here, is because we want a better life for ourselves and for our families, and, you know, our children and to help just, you know, take care of them better. That kind of stuff speaks and resonates with people. It separates you from real business minded investors, because you're an actual person with an actual family and an actual passion for buying that business and taking it places, and then, you know, a desire to to learn what the owner currently does. You know, be interested in how they do things day to day, asking a lot of questions. You know about that kind of stuff, but never once in there were numbers mentioned, right? You need to learn things first. And that stuff will come up organically on its own eventually. So just yeah, don't, don't talk about all the changes you want to make. You know, if you see something that's outdated and you want to modernize it, you know, don't talk too much about that. You can talk about, you know, the future where you would like to take the company, but don't,

Unknown Speaker  21:21
basically, don't,

Speaker 1  21:25
you know, go like, make it seem like you're insulting what they've done, you know, or their processes, right? Because they might not know any better, you know. You come in with a different knowledge base, a different set of skills and experience that they might not know about. So just, just be skillful about it, like, oh, I have an idea of, you know, taking this business to this level. And maybe I would, I would consider doing this. What do you think about this? And, you know, asking a lot of questions and deferring to that owner is is really huge. And then definitely don't talk about seller financing at this point. That shouldn't even come up unless they bring it up to you. So your due diligence period encompasses a lot of stuff. It's not just the tax returns and the year to date and the balance sheet and payroll and all those kind of things. It's also operational. You're going to be able to see their systems if they have standard operating procedures, like, this is how we hire people. This is how we do inventory. This is how we do whatever it is you need to be able to jump into there and learn all of that stuff and just absorb all the information you can just to see, like, you know, what is the current state of the business is? Any is one person doing everything and that, if that one person leaves, you're in real trouble. You know, you should be able to find out what their supplier list is. You know, do they have exclusive is, like, some kind of weird deal that the owner has with his buddy that's down the street that you might not get those same terms, like all that kind of stuff. You can ask those questions to the owner or to the broker, to the whoever you're dealing with, whoever the person on the front lines of that business sale is, and then legal. What licenses do they have? Are there any liens on anything? Do they owe any money? Do they have any debt on the business? Are there contracts that are coming up soon? What are what are your exclusive contracts? Do you have a big like exclusive deal, like a fleet deal with, you know, with some company that might be expiring soon, that kind of stuff. And then you're going to go online, you're going to look at Google reviews. You want to see what the customer feedback has been for the business, what their reputation is in that city, online and just in the community. And you know, the community part one is a little bit difficult, but once you get to the last phase, which is the employee interviews, and I'm not saying you just go and sit down and Barbara Walters interview them, I'm just saying you just make small talk and talk about the business and what they do there, and what they think about it. How can it be improved? What do they like about it? What don't they like? They will spill the beans. The employees will give you all the the grizzly details good and bad that maybe you might not hear from the owner. Maybe the owner doesn't know, but those employees are are really good at kind of giving you all that alpha information. And then throughout this point, you should be having your financing together. So your first, the first person that's going to look at this deal is going to be whoever your lender is, whether it's a traditional bank, whether it's the SBA bank, and you know, they're going to see all these financials first, so they'll be able to tell you at the very beginning if they think it's a good deal or not. And hopefully you've used the tools to analyze it. You go in there with all the terminology down, you have projections. You say, Okay, here's what the current state is. Here's what you know if you. Tell me what the terms of the financing would be. We can plug this in. We can see, you know, how much my earnings will be, the for the first year, the second year, third year, fourth year, what the debt service coverage ratio is? All that kind of stuff. You know, speaking intelligently about this stuff will go a long way, because it's very refreshing, because most people go to lenders without a clue as to what they're talking about. They just are basically like, Hey, I found a cool business. Give me money, and that's not going to cut it. And then, you know, if you're going to use a HELOC, obviously you you start that. And you know, if you're doing capital stacking, you should have already had that process going or even complete so you're seasoning that money. So that's why it's very important to to the timing of this stuff. And then finally, you get down to the nitty gritty of how you want to structure the deal. So we've talked about it before, but an asset sale versus a stock sale, an asset sale being you have your own business entity, like an LLC, and you're going that LLC is going to buy everything that the business owns, including its name, its goodwill, everything it's going to, you know, the agreement will say, All of this stuff is transferred to my LLC, and then my LLC will do a DBA, which is doing business as whatever the business name was. So it's like a line in the sand. This is a new, new thing, but as far as everyone in the community knows, they don't know any different. They just know there's a new owner. The name still the same and all that stuff. But that's that's what an asset sale is, and it gives you extra liability. So you're it's harder for an old customer to sue you when you do an asset sale. But the con to it is that you lose out on the financial history of the business. So if that business has been around for 20 years, and it has great business credit, it has lines of credit that's paid off, all that stuff gets reset when you take over. So that's the con there. On the other side is the stock purchase. A stock purchase is you go and transfer their business entity into your name, so you become the owner of the entity that's already there. The bonus of that is you get all that financial history. You get all that stuff, you know, right there ready to go. But you can open yourself up to liability. Even if you put an indemnity clause in the purchase agreement, you can still be sued for for an like an employee or a customer from before you even bought the business. Can sue the business, and therefore sue you after the owner's already gone and taken their money. So you just have to decide what works better for you and what's more important. And then hold backs. So well, let's, let's talk about earnouts first. So earn out could be, no, I this is not something that happens very often, but I still want to make it, make you guys aware of this. So earn out is you don't buy the entire business at one at one point, you can structure a deal where you say, Okay, I'm going to buy 75% of this business because I feel like it's a little bit shaky, and you're making all these wild claims. So let's, let's do it like this. I'll buy 75% and then I'll pay you 10% in a year if we reach a certain revenue, and then another 10% six months after that, if the EBITDA is right there or another, you know, whatever, I'll pay the rest of it, as long as the big customers are still there a year from now, things like that. It's not very common, but it can be a way to get you over a hump where you don't necessarily trust where the future of the business is in the next six months. The other thing is hold backs. So maybe they're going to put some money into into into escrow, or you're going to put some of the money into escrow, and you won't pay it until all the legal, the tax and the debts are paid. So if they have a loan that they're paying off. You don't want to assume that loan. You want them to pay that loan off. So you'll say, okay, whatever the remainder of the loan is, I will put that in escrow, and if you pay it off by this date, then I will give you that money. If you don't pay it off, then that's my money. That's a hold back. And then there's working capital adjustments, which is, after closing, maybe they're going to give you, maybe you overpay a little bit, and then some of that money comes back to you. So you structure it into the loan where it's an extra $10,000 from what they're asking. And you know, the lender doesn't necessarily have. No, that's something you worked out with the owner. And the contract shows that, you know, you put an extra 10,000 in, they're going to give you that 10,000 back. It's almost like, you know, paying the closing costs when you sell a house to someone who can't pay it on their own, that kind of stuff. And then there's some really intricate funding strategies in this document, this deal, funding strategies document everywhere from pre, close to post close. And there's a ton of stuff in there that document, it can be a little confusing, but it just shows you how creative you can get when you structure a deal to buy a business. And you know, there's only a few options with real estate, but with business, there's so many options, like you can get super creative, and you can make a beneficial deal for both buyer and seller. That's that just makes makes both parties feel safe. That's very important, because at the end of the day, you want to make sure that you're buying a good, solid business, and it's going to be okay, like you're going to your future is okay. You're going to be able to pay the debt, you're going to be able to move forward, you're going to pay it off, and then you're going to cash flow and get that semi passive income that you've been looking for. So now this is generally the point where I'll make an official offer. So we've done all that. We've kind of, I've thought about the terms of what I would like. We've kicked some ideas back and forth, and then I will say, Okay, I would prefer to just talk to them face to face. Here is my official offer. I would like to pay this much. I would like to close on this date. I would be looking for this much working capital. I would like to get some seller financing for half of this down payment, whatever, whatever it is that you you've come up with within your head, this is the point where you can make those negotiations. And you're going to be talking about the price, the terms and contingencies. So this can, this can happen in the Letter of Intent phase, like I talked about before. Some buyers do that. I don't. I would rather get in and learn more about the business before I even talk about a price. And then, if you don't feel comfortable verbally, whether it's on the phone or in person, going back and forth with numbers. You can do it in purchase agreement amendments, just like you can with real estate. You can say, Okay, here's my preliminary purchase agreement. I'm going to send it to you. If you agree to these terms, you can sign it. Otherwise, you can make a counter offer, and you just go back and forth. It's kind of an email trail back and forth, but you're changing the same document. And you accept. They accept back and forth, back and forth, and then at the end of that, you both sign it, and you're good to go. So just remember, like when you're negotiating, if you're trying to bring that price down, it's just like when you go to buy a car, and maybe you love that car, maybe you think it's the best car that's ever it's your dream car. It's everything you've ever wanted. Well, you better find something wrong with it. So you better find a scuff somewhere, maybe the seats uncomfortable. It burns too much gas, whatever it is, you need to start kind of putting some some cracks in the armor and and have a reason why you want to pay less, and generally, it's the numbers. It's the multiple. You know, you feel like it should be a multiple of of this. They feel like should be a multiple of that. And you know, you talk about why they feel it and why you and you settle somewhere in the middle. You know, everybody should be a little bit a little bit comfortable with the negotiation and a little bit uncomfortable. I shouldn't know one person should get everything they want. And you know, you're also negotiating the owner involvement, just like Tran showed us earlier. You know, they negotiated a deal where the owner's involved for two years, a big part of the business, and it's allowed him, it's going to allow him to scale quickly. It's a it's, it's a great and creative way to do that deal. A lot of times, it's just, is the owner going to stick around for two weeks or a month to train you? Are they going to be available after that? And then you're going to talk about, you know, maybe there's a problem with certain things that they do. Maybe there's an employee that you don't necessarily think is going to stay or is is really working too hard, and you're worried about that whatever, whatever flaws you can find to kind of get that price down if you feel like it's too high, because if you feel like it's a good deal, you don't want to low ball, okay? You don't want to get too greedy, and you don't want to, you know, blow a deal. That is a good deal at full price, just because you try to save a couple $1,000 because at the end of the year, if you're making 150 grand, what did that 2000 really matter? It's a it's, it matters, what, how good the deal was to begin with, and, oh, the finance. Asking obstacles. So that's another way you can say, Well, I'm not sure that the SBA will finance at at this price. You know, I've talked to my lender, and my lender said that he thinks this, that the price should be around here, that can also help you too. And, yeah, don't come in at a really super low offer. If you're making a super low offer to make that work, then it probably wasn't a good business to go after anyway. Really, it should be a good deal, even if you have to pay full price. Now, we're in the final phase. You have your final due diligence, you've come to tentative terms back and forth. And you're going to take it to a CPA. The CPA is going to go over those numbers. They're going to get a second look at the current state of the business to make sure that, you know, those tax returns, those PNLs, everything looks on the up and up. And then they're going to give you a what's called a pro forma. A pro forma is projections for the next year if you were to take over that business. So let's I'm going to show you that really fast. I have a pro forma ready. So this is the pro forma. I can show you this. I can't show you the numbers, last year's numbers because of my NDA, but the current business that I'm looking to purchase, this is the pro forma I got from my accountant yesterday. So this is what he projects the numbers to be, informally. As far as you know, total revenues is like around 950, cost of goods sold is 270 your gross profits here how much you're going to pay in payroll, though, that's with the numbers of the current employees, exactly what they're making today and how many hours they work, carrying that forward, the rent that I'm going to pay, repairs and maintenance for equipment, things like that, workers comp, utilities, all that stuff that you would expect to have in business expenses. And then you get your pre tax profit right here. And then minus what I would have to pay in principal payments on the loan. And then you get your your cash flow. You get your EBITDA, and then you get your multiples. Okay, so the positive cash flow or seller discretionary earnings right here for this business, they're asking 275, it's projected to be around 100 right? We know from previous you know, things that we've talked about that that that fits right in our box, right? So we're good there. So you can see what the you know the loan is going to be every month, and then the multiple. So anything under a three on this cash flow multiple is good, and sometimes on the bigger businesses, you're not going to necessarily have the cash flow number. You're going to be dealing with just the EBITDA. Even still, it's still a great EBITDA. So that's kind of an informal pro forma. That's like the last step for your accountant to do for you, and then

Unknown Speaker  38:13
the attorney. So

Speaker 1  38:17
the attorney is going to formally make up that purchase agreement. They're going to handle your, your business entity work, you know how, whether it's a stock sale or an asset sale, they're going to make sure that there's no pending legal actions currently on there, because all that structured in your, your your purchase agreement, to make sure that if any of that stuff is found, everything, everything is pointing to you to buy this business, unless some really bad thing comes up at this point. And then it's if you have some earnest money that you have to throw into escrow. You may have already had to do that. And then you the signatures and the actual transfer of ownership that business at this point is yours, and then there's that little bit of a transition period where the owner is still there. They're teaching you how to do this stuff. You've have come in, you've made, you know, at least, spoken to each employee one on one, or you've kind of announced to all of them and a group like, Hey, I just want you to know I've acquired this business. I'm really excited about this opportunity. I'm planning on, you know, growing this business and making it a great environment for you to work in. And I want to continue Bob's legacy, you know, whatever you know, you come in and kind of give a little pep talk to make sure that they feel comfortable you've already spent time with them at this point, because you had time with an exposure to those employees to know, you know, where their head's at, how what they feel about the business, where they think it can go. You have all those ideas that you ask them about previously. You know, what's good with the business, what's bad with. The business, what do you think should happen that those those things that you were doing and talking about earlier in the process? You can bring that up, and that's where you get your quick wins. If you find something, some low hanging fruit of a small thing you can do. I'll give you an example of one. So simply moving where paperwork was. Somebody said, Hey, I have to walk all the way across this, this, this area, to go pick this paperwork and bring it back. And it doesn't make sense. And the owner won't. He's always had it there. He doesn't. He said, If we move it to this wall, I only have to walk about 10 feet. And it doesn't, you know, something super simple like that that really doesn't make any difference. Let you know that you're listening to that employee, and it's a quick, easy win to show that you're going to try to make positive change there. And then you start with SOPs, or standard operating procedures, which are like you're going to start documenting for yourself and for whoever comes in, the current procedures of how you hire people, how you do inventory, how you onboard customers, whatever it is, you just want to get that stuff down and and document it somewhere, because that will serve you well in the future. Because you you have a record of how things are supposed to run, you can always point the employees back to it. It's just part of setting it up to succeed and to be more hands off later, because all that stuff, when they ask, rather than them calling and asking you a question, hey, how do I do this? It's all documented. You have the SOP there. You can just point them to that say, Well, this is how we do it. And if you're buying similar businesses and similar industries. A lot of that stuff you can carry forward into those businesses as well. But yeah, there you go. I know I went through it quickly. I didn't want to keep everybody too long, but I wanted to give that macro level view of start to stop or start to finish. Excuse me, anybody have any questions about that? Bet you do. Hey, Shane,

Speaker 3  42:07
yeah, real quick for I forgot. Sorry I'm hopping in on anybody but two protections that I was whenever you're tied, didn't want to interrupt your your slides, but two protections that should be brought up, or at least one is, if it is a stock sale, because mine is a stock sale, you can also do an LLC as a holding company, and that'll separate if there is possible, because I'll be doing that. So if there's any lawsuits or anything like that, it'll only be on his half of the business. And the other thing I wanted to bring up is, when you're going through a lot of those hard talks, like you were talking about the money issue and like, maybe, maybe your make or break if you're undercutting and things like that, transparency was huge for me. So I brought my loan officer in with the three of us to talk about it and and they talk all that out. Like, hey, you know, I looked at the documents as well, and this is what we're seeing so and it kind of gets them to an equal level of understanding. Or like you're saying they the broker is always going to put it at its highest, and the SBA guys is going to come right in the middle and say, Listen, like, I know you're asking for 325, but these numbers, and most time, they already know the numbers are kind of low. Are they looking funny? So, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  43:29
And a good accountant can help you in that same way, a good accountant that's been involved in multiple deals comes in and says, Hey, I've seen these sell at this multiple you know, just by leveraging the opinion of another professional is huge. Yeah, that's, that's a great point. And so what you were saying about the holding company, it's it that is dependent upon the state. So I used to in my state, I thought that was that would also keep me safe. I also a lot of people, what they do on a stock sale is they don't even go that extra protection of a holding company. They do an indemnity clause in the purchase agreement. And I talked the last attorney I talked to said that he's seen both of those broken in my state and the owner held liable. But it's very state dependent on the state laws, so I don't know. It just, it's just whatever works for you. And you know, some businesses also come with more risk. For instance, I don't know. I feel like if say it's auto repair and somebody, you know, puts in a new axle, and that axle breaks, and someone goes off a cliff. You know, that's a lot of potential liability. Whereas, you know, if it's a candy shop and probably doesn't have the same kind of liability, you know what I mean, like it just, it just depends on the deal and what the owner wants to do as well.

Unknown Speaker  44:58
You. But yeah, great, great point. I

Unknown Speaker  45:06
have a question or two, actually.

Speaker 4  45:11
So the reason I was talking about looking for off market deals was because in the past year or so, when looking on biz, buy, sell, like out of maybe 5060, messages I've inquired about like, I've only gotten like, two or three responses from these people. Or, like, whether it's a broker or the owner itself. So my question is, one, like, what's, is there a secret to getting response? And also, two, you said earlier, these businesses, they don't like to talk to corporate, private equity type people. So do you introduce yourself as an investor, or do you say, Hey, I'm a business owner, or I'm an entrepreneur, like, do you say investor? Or is that a turn off or so? Yeah, how would you get responses from biz by sell more effectively? And how do you introduce yourself?

Speaker 1  46:02
Well, I don't know that there's necessarily a way to to get more responses on biz, buy, sell. A lot of times they're either they already have somebody that you know is is in due diligence on the business. They don't, they don't bother to change it to pending, just because they want to also source leads for themselves and for, you know, if they have other businesses that come up, you know, it's a when you're a broker, whether it's real estate or business broker, it's all about your network. And you know, what kind of leads you have. And if you have somebody that's a serious buyer, you know, and you got another business, maybe they're going to send you that, that kind of stuff. So that's why they don't really change it to Pending as much as they should. So that's one reason. But I don't, I don't label myself when I reach out to them, I just say, hey, I'm interested if, if they ask me, you know, what's my what's my background? I generally say, I'm a business owner, you know, and I don't get into it too much unless they just really want to know everything. But, I mean, it's a numbers game. You're going to you're going to send out a bunch of feelers, you're going to inquire about a bunch of businesses, and it's going to be maybe a quarter of them respond. You might not ever know why, and you might get a response that says, hey, we're, you know, we're, we listed it, but we're not necessarily ready to share the financials. And we'll get back to you, and then you never hear anything back. I mean, you just, you just don't know.

Speaker 3  47:32
Hey, Shane, can I ask Joe a question? Yeah, absolutely. So how are you inquiring about the businesses on this, buy, sell on those sites. You don't mind me asking?

Speaker 4  47:44
Yeah, sure, of course. And so I'll basically just on the site, you know, there's a listing. It says, you know, send a message here, and I'll put in my basic information, and then, like, I'll just say a quick message, just let people know, like, there's a real person. Hey, my name is Joe, you know, I'm an entrepreneur. I live here in Florida, I'm interested in learning more about this business. Feel free to email me or text me and just like just quick little basic message, just to show that I'm just not like some computer that's just, you know, sending messages all day long.

Speaker 3  48:19
So I know the things that helped me was the same things that Shane was talking about as intent, meaning, like, not just you're wanting to purchase a business, but giving them a timeline and giving them a little reason of why. Like, hey, I'm really passionate about so and so I'd like to purchase within 90 to, you know, 180 days. It allows a lot of the brokers to fill out a lot of the BS. It sounds bad, but that's what they told me. It allows them to filter it out. But the other thing is, there's like, a little number I noticed, just because I spend way too much time on the website, if you look on biz by cell, some people only answer their phone because they're older brokers. So I would just offer, if you click on that button where it says phone, just give them a call and say, Hey, could you tell me you know a little bit about it? Okay, good idea.

Speaker 1  49:07
And that, and that number thing so that 90 to 180 days it, for one thing, it it just gives you a little bit of instant credibility, because it's not you're not one. It shows you're you're not desperate too. It shows that you know about how long it takes to land one of these deals. You know, 90 days is about the minimum. I mean, there you you can do it earlier, but for people like us who are getting SBA loans and going through that old process and negotiating and really getting in doing due diligence, it's going to take 90 days. So it just shows that at least you understand the process and what it takes to take it to the finish line. So I think, yeah, I think that's very important to have that time frame in there for sure.

Unknown Speaker  49:49
All right, cool. I'll start doing that. Thank you.

Speaker 1  49:58
Anybody got any other questions about. Just the process that we just talked about. Shane, oh, I'm sorry. I think I think Ernie had stand ups in Okay, go ahead,

Unknown Speaker  50:15
Shane, in your PDF.

Speaker 5  50:18
I think at the last step, you mentioned that you talk to CPA right during the closing. So my question is, what if, let's say, if the CPA finds some errors, like in a financial documents, would it be better to talk to CPA, like, earlier than closing?

Speaker 1  50:36
Like, well, yeah, I mean, I think the list, like, of my the maybe the sequence of the end of those slides made it look like the it was after a purchase agreement has already been signed, but it's just after you've negotiated a tentative price then then that's because the attorney, actually, I have the attorney create the purchase agreement, The finalized purchase agreement that everything, where you you sign everything, and it's official. That's from the attorney in the last phase. So the CPA has looked at those numbers prior to the official signing of the purchase agreement. If you think, like where I'm at right now with my current deal, that's been, that's been the process. So I you know, we went through a long due diligence in this one. It's taken a long time, but the CPA did the pro forma. Everything looks good. Now tomorrow, the attorney starts on the actual purchase agreement with the terms. So yeah, it's, it's prior to signing the purchase agreement. So I'm sorry if that was confusing by the sequence of those slides.

Unknown Speaker  51:42
Yeah, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  51:46
Zed. Oh,

Speaker 6  51:47
okay, yeah, let's talk about credit, right? So we what do you consider as far as using your personal credit, or, you know, business credit, or something like that, or are you starting these LLCs fresh, or can you use an existing LLC to purchase a business?

Unknown Speaker  52:08
Well, you know, if you're,

Speaker 1  52:10
so it's a, there's a couple of answers to that. So if you're, if you're looking for, you know, to do a an asset sale, it doesn't really matter what the entity is, right? Because you're just, you know, you just want it to be formed correctly and solid and in good standing with the state, and have an EIN and all that kind of stuff. It doesn't really, doesn't really matter if you're looking for funding to purchase the business ahead of time, then you have to, you know, dot your i's cross, your T's go through that the full, the full, you know, LLC, DIY kit, to be able to have it set up to get to maximize your funding ahead of time. So, but you're, when you get financing through the SBA, you're getting it in your name, okay, you know, I mean, you're, you're personally guarantee, guaranteeing that. So at the end of the day, you have to that business has to pay that back, or you're on the hook for it.

Speaker 6  53:09
And what's your standard credit store credit score

Unknown Speaker  53:15
to for the SBA loan is 686, 8680.

Speaker 1  53:19
And then if you want to do like capital stacking and stuff like that, it's like around 710 would be ideal, 710 or better.

Unknown Speaker  53:27
Okay, well, thank you. No

Speaker 1  53:31
problem, good question. Okay, so let's go ahead and we'll wrap this up.
