Speaker 1  00:00
Hi guys. Hi everyone. My name is Keith. I'm based in Southern California. I by day, I am a solutions architect, and on the side, I invest in short term to mid term real estate, and I also wholesale real estate as well too. And I have a short presentation for you guys to kind of walk through the basics of wholesaling. It's about six or seven slides, but I'll make it. I want to make it interactive too, so I'll pause at the end of every slide so you guys can ask any questions that you have. I think I need to. I just sent a request to share my screen. Okay, perfect. I think share now. There we go. Okay, can everyone see my screen? Yes. All right. So what is wholesaling real estate kind of like, if you look at it from a 360 review, wholesaling a product is essentially selling a product at a discount rate before MSRP, for MSRP. So what wholesaling real estate entails is you're going to be buying a going into contract with the property. You're finding undervalued property, and you're getting into contract. The beautiful thing about Wholesaling is that you you rarely have to use any of your own money to to contract to close any deals. Occasionally, sometimes you have to insert an EMD, but usually it's structured where the actual investor does that. So you're finding undervalued properties, typically properties that are either run down or there's some kind of life changing event where there's a divorce death, unfortunately, they owe money in the property. There's arrears, there's a pre foreclosure. As a foreclosure, the property is distressed. Either property is distressed or it's kind of like what Shane mentioned earlier, the investor has so much money they do not know what they want to do with it. So they sometimes, they will, they'll sell the property. But wholesaling real estate is buying properties at a discount, putting them under contract and essentially flipping into an investor. You're not buying the property yourself. You're going directly into contract with the seller, and then you are reassigning that contract to an end buyer, an investor, or in many cases, actual people, homeowners, who want to live in the home, and that's I'm actually I have a I'm in the middle of a deal with in that same situation, where the market is, it is what it is right now, interest rates are high. Some people don't have the credit, but they have the cash, and they will go, they will kind of engage what we call the seller financing or they'll buy the property, cash out, right? And the way you profit from wholesaling is there's what we call an assignment fee. An assignment fee is essentially the difference between the difference between the two contract prices. So let's say I go into contract for a property for 100 grand, I reassign the property to an investor for $120,000

Unknown Speaker  03:04
and I pocket the $10,000 difference.

Speaker 1  03:08
So it's, again, there's, as an investor, you're coming in with very little capital. I mean, the most amount of the money that you'll be spending is more on marketing, if anything, and it's a great way to get involved in real estate. You estate. It is. It can be time consuming, and every case, every situation, is case by case, because at the end of the day, the numbers have to make sense for an investor. But the really, the really cool thing about Wholesaling is it's versatile. You can market a property to a variety of different investors. So for example, this property I have right now, I'm in talks with a couple who wants to, like I said, Buy to live in what we call a homestead buyer, right? The property is on Airbnb as well, too, but it doesn't do too well on Airbnb, so I have to pivot and shift it towards a co living investor, which I'm actually learning about now is where an investor will buy a property and rent out room by room to professionals who live there. So instead of renting up all property to a set group of people or family, they rent out each room to individual people, and they all live. They live amongst each other. Again, it's a great entry point for someone new to new into real estate to get into anyone have any questions of what we discussed, what I've discussed so

Speaker 2  04:26
far is, it, does it vary wildly, like the the assignment fee from property to property, like Howard, what's what? What kind of percentage of the overall price does that tend to be?

Speaker 1  04:39
That's a very good question. So there's no percentage. Really wouldn't go by percentage, just it's more of a more of an average. So the average assignment fee is about $10,000 and I've seen assignment fees as low as like 2000 $1,000 and assignment fees as high as six figures. It really. Just depends on two things, the after repair value of the property, so how much it will sell for when it's hypothetically repaired and flipped, how much work it needs to be done, and the price that you agree with the seller. So there's a few factors that kind of go in there. So if that's so, for example, and I have the formula and in later slides, let's say, I'll use the $100,000 example. Let's say that this property is worth I gave the contract for the property for $100,000

Unknown Speaker  05:34
property goes for $200,000

Speaker 1  05:37
in market after his repair. So the RV is $200,000 and the the repairs, are about $20,000 so me, as a wholesaler, I can only, if I want to make at least $10,000 I can only mark it up to and the seller and I have to resell it. So I can only market up to, let's say, $150,000 under $60,000 for the flipper to come in and buy the property, hold it and and then resell it. Probably even less, probably closer to $130,000 because then you have things like holding cost. They're using private money. So it just depends on the market, what the property will go for after is fixed, and how what you agree with the seller. Because it depends where you where you pursue properties. Here in California, seller send, they can get a lot of money for the properties which they can, but at the same time they make it can be difficult because they want an astronomical number. That's unrealistic. You go in other states, like I do a lot of business in Texas, people a lot more flexible, and I think also more a little bit more business money as well too. So it's it makes it can make the process of more seamless, because they're more reasonable as to what they will sell the property for, and also their I found that, obviously everyone is different, but terms, the terms you create are different, can be different as well too. Because there's a slide, I have a slide on it, we also will engage in seller financing as well too, which makes it a lot easier. So it was very long. Did I answer your question?

Unknown Speaker  07:07
Shane, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Thank you, yep.

Speaker 1  07:11
So again, just to recap, there's no set fee, but the average, like the price, the amount that we go for, is $10,000 that's like the average whole selling fee.

Unknown Speaker  07:19
All right. Next slide. Okay.

Speaker 1  07:26
So how do we find discounted properties? There's a couple different ways you can go door knocking. I literally go door knocking. So what like as a wholesaler? What I look for a lot. If I'm driving by, if I see like, I've seen properties that are boarded up. I see properties that have, like, overgrown vegetation. It doesn't look like that everyone's lived there. I will, either, probably will knock on the door if it's boarded up because no one's there, or the people there, they're not the owners, I'll, I'll find the contact information. And you can really do called skip tracing. There's services that do that, like Penny skip tracing, batch leads, prop Shane have it as well, too. Or you can go to people, search calm, and you can look up the address and see who the owner is. And some a lot of times, about 50% of time, you can get decent contact information public records. You can, we can you can request public records from the county, the respective county of the houses in or the state, and it'll pull tax deeds potential for pretty foreclosures, foreclosures. And then what I use a lot is I, personally, for me and some of the people that I work with, we go after stale listings on the MLS. So I'll use refin A lot. I like refined just because I like its UI. ZIL is also pretty good as well, too. And I will set a filter to a house specific, specific, I guess build, or I guess size. So three, one, at least 1500 square feet that's been in the market for at least 90 days. You can give 60 days. But 90 days is typically better, because then you get, you start getting houses that have been on the market close, sometimes close to 200 days, depending on, depending on what market it's in. And then I'll reach out directly to the realtor, or I'll reach out directly to if it's FSBO, which is for sale by owner, which is even better, I reach out directly to the owner as well, and and, and just basically ask him about the property, what he's looking to do with it. Why is there? Why are they selling it? And then kind of gage a feel, if they're open to different types of offers, like obviously cash offer or seller financing offer, there's there. There are also online platforms I've used, like prop stream, batch leads. Honestly, they're hit or miss. The data is so so I have, you know, I've had, I've been gained, I've gained leads from these platforms where they're looking to sell, and I've also gotten bad data where it's the wrong. Number and that person doesn't live there, or the person hasn't lived there for a long time. So it's a hit or miss. Obviously the best, the best thing is word of mouth. You build a relationship with potentially one seller, you close a deal with them, or even close a deal, but you have a good relationship with them or a realtor, and they will lead you to other business. That's how I've gotten business. There's direct mail and cold calling. I haven't done direct bullet personally. I've heard it works. I've done a lot of cold calling that works. That's a numbers game. And just same thing, you get on the phone with a seller, and you build rapport with them, and you it's, it's on a, it's typically never really a once a, one call close. It's at least two or three, two or three calls conversations before you close. Kind of like, what I said initially is, you want to, you want to look for homes that look like they need work, whether it be, I mean, whether it be a property at a home that has broken windows, there's a hole in the roof, or just looks old in general. Typically, those people, either one, are neglecting a property and are just looking to sell, get, get out of the property. That's why I said initially, every situation, every deal, is different, because you can have someone that want to have lot of credit card debt, and they're looking to sell the property because of that, or they're going through a divorce, or they need to, they they want to sell their house, but they don't want to do on the MLS. So there's, there's always a multitude of different situations. The benefit with wholesaling is typically, which is always good to convey to the seller, is that the end buyer, the investor, whether it's a flipper or someone who's going to buy the home and hold it, they're going to pay for closing costs. They're going to pay for majority, at least 3% of real terms of all through 3% commissions too. So they kind of take the they kind of save the seller money in that sense too. Because when a property closes on an MLS, you have closing costs, and that that's going to be anywhere between three to 6% conservatively, sometimes even higher, closer 8% and that that gets, that's, that's essentially deducted from the proceeds of the sale as well, too. And on top of that, depending on if it's a cash deal, sell finance deal, you have tax taxing complications as well too. So there are multiple ways of finding a discounted property. Again, for me personally, the where I've had most success and I've gotten deals referrals are through word of mouth, referrals and building relationship with sellers, friends of family and all realtors, realtors are can be a great resource too, because obviously they have a huge network. Realtors are always trying to network, so they they're a great resource to have anyone have any questions about finding discounted property or finding properties to wholesale?

Speaker 2  13:01
Yeah, yeah. I have a two part question. So the first one would be, this is where the grind is correct, like just finding the the properties and the volume of calls and things like that. And then second is, have, have you ever tried bandit signs? And, you know, we, you know, we buy properties for cash, that kind of stuff. Because I've, I've been able to, in the past, find good investment opportunities for just investment properties that I purchased by putting up, you know, I, I'll buy any property for cash.

Speaker 1  13:35
Yeah, I haven't, personally, but, yeah, I've, I've heard of people using them, and yeah, they do work. So, yeah, that works. And it, it is. It's the beginning. It's the beginning of the grind. I mean, especially if you're cold calling, I would say the grind is also just, yeah, I would say it's the beginning, it's, it's, that's the the, I guess the the focal point of the grind is cold calling, getting properties under contract, finding it, no,

Unknown Speaker  14:01
what was the second part of your question?

Unknown Speaker  14:05
Shane, oh, it was the signs, the bandit sign.

Speaker 1  14:07
Yeah, no, I haven't used them personally. Also, where I'm at is extremely windy, and they wouldn't last long, but I have heard of them working. And also just digital ads as well, too. I'd use Facebook ads and those, those, those work. It just you have to target the right market. Per se. One

Speaker 2  14:28
more question, the public records, the pre foreclosure and tax delinquency and stuff like, how do you are you just going to the courthouse locally and trying to get those lists? I know it's a little different each state, but this is that, how you're doing it?

Speaker 1  14:44
Yeah, I've gone to the courthouse, and depending on it depends for me, it's my experience. It's been County. So I also have requested records directly from the county, and they'll email them to me. For example, I pulled up, I pulled a large. Large file of fire, burnt fire, burnt properties in Orange County and LA County as well. But yeah, you can, depending on the county, you can either go to the courthouse your physically, or you can request it online or via phone as well, too. And also, in addition to, like, pre foreclosures, you can get properties are on list for for auction as well, too, or tax, you know, tax deeds,

Unknown Speaker  15:34
okay, thank you. Yeah,

Speaker 1  15:38
building your buyers list is very important, and honestly, I think this should be done in tandem, or even before you start looking for properties, because so I'll actually go through like, the different ways you can do it. So obviously you can attend, like, local meetups in the area. Real Estate auctions are good to go to. Again, meetups are good network, network, so you can use platforms like I use bigger pockets to an extent. Facebook is really good. Public records are good. Another way to do it is what I'm also trying to what I'm a deal that I'm working on right now is if I have a property in contract, or I know if I'm gonna have a property in contract, I'll start reaching out to realtors who have closed, who have listed properties that closed recently, within the last 12 months, of properties that are flips. And the way I can tell of it it's a flip is I look at the basically, I mean some exactly, but I look at the built date of the home. And if the home looks turn key or very new. It's more than likely flip or it's been updated. And from that, I can deduce that more than likely it was an investor who flipped the property and sold it, and that realtor is going to have not not only them in their contacts of the Rolodex, but probably other investors who do flips or buy and holds as well. Rehab and hold as well too. And I will basically build the realtors finders fee into my price. Obviously, it has to be priced well and pay the realtor, not another table, but out of, you know, out of out of my commission. But I build it in because it saves them time, because I don't have to do any paperwork, and they no one wants to do paperwork. And then another way is kind of delving more into the Facebook. Which method, which would I use is, I will go on Facebook and I will look at, go on to, for example, groups that for investors, buy, you know, cash buyers, creative buyers, whatever it may be. And I will scour the comments of properties that are listed by other wholesalers, and I will add these people as my friend, or if they list their emails, I will save their emails on this in a spreadsheet, and I will save their contact information, and then later on message on the side, again, networking is very important. I connected with another wholesaler the other day, and out of the blue, I got a call from a buyer in Arizona saying, Hey, I'm looking to buy. I'm buying condos. I'm buying houses. I flip, I flip, I buy and hold. Here's my Buy Box. Buy Box is essentially what their buy criteria is. So, man, it could be, it's going to be like their price point, whether they what their price limit is, how big the home is, what type of home they want? Were they looking in this in that perspective city that they're looking to invest into. They want to stay away from main roads. They're looking for a home with a pool, without a pool, details of that nature. So that I think that's probably been my best in addition to networking, finding buyers through Facebook has been, probably, that's been, that's been my, the my other most successful method, and obviously networking, you can, you can buy things. There's, there's a website called investor lift, but that, I think, is $500 a month. And if you're a brand new wholesaler, just starting out like I don't, I don't have a lot of experience either. It's, it's a lot, it's costly. There's other there's other websites, such as, like connected investors. It's so, so there's buyers on there, but Facebook and networking, going to meetups, anything you do in person, helps a lot. That's, that's a great way to grow your network. Anyone have any questions about building your buyers? This is, this is very important. This is just as important as getting a property in a contract because you don't buyers, you you don't have anyone to sell to. You might as well not get to get the property under contract. What I will say that helps a lot is so what's common in wholesale real estate is what we call joint venture J being so you don't have to have the buy. Buyer. You can bring the buyer to another wholesaler, and the wholesaler will have buyers, and then you guys will split the assignment fee. So it's usually 5050, sometimes 6040, whatever, whatever the two of you, whatever the two of you comes agreement on, that's your assignment fee. And the assignment fee is dispersed when via title and escrow, after the poppy sold, then the remaining balance, which is the assignment fee, is basically as first to you and or the other wholesaler, if it is a JV deal. So the cool thing about wholesaling again, it's you don't need a lot of capital. You make your money by networking and meeting people. And that goes with the same thing, same way as doing deals. You're you bring a seller, they bring a buyer. You guys come together and you commence the deals.

Unknown Speaker  20:46
Yeah. Any questions about buyers list?

Speaker 3  20:53
I can? I just jump in here real quick so I have a little bit of experience doing some wholesaling and whatever I wish. When I got started, someone told me the importance of a buyer's list, because I hustled like crazy and I had a few deals, and I'm like, Well, what now I didn't even know about building a buyer's list, so that was I wish it was one of those. If I knew then what I know now that probably would have spent a lot more time there. So thanks for pointing that out. That's awesome,

Speaker 1  21:21
yeah, yeah, no, of course. And it kind of gets lost on people, right? Because we're so excited to get, get a property under contract, get at a good price, but that's, that's just half of the equation, obviously, because unless you're unless you're holding the property, keeping the property for yourself, then you, need someone on the side of the transaction. And I've been in that situation where I have buyers and just the properties and the numbers don't make sense, and it doesn't sell, I have to cancel the contract, because if so, every state is different. But there's there's what we call an inspection period, and the inspection period is when the buyer prospect, the bar can do their due diligence and walk the property, look at the financials, whatever, depending what kind of property is, right. So at that time, excuse me, either you, ideally not you, the wholesaler or the buyer, needs to submit an EMD, and depending on you structure the contract, the EMD is either due at the beginning or at the end. It's always best to have the MD do at the end of basically before the the inspection period. Or Texas, for example. It's called option periods. It's basically the same thing ends. I was in a situation where in Texas, where the option period I had, I submit the EMD was a very, it wasn't a big about a large amount. And I canceled because I couldn't find a buyer. I had buyers. I had several buyers walk it. Couldn't sell it, so I canceled it. But I kind of went on a tangent. But yeah, again, it's, you need to have a buyer's list. And it's, it's almost like reverse engineering. You kind of see what the buyer's looking for. If you have a group of buyers that are looking for something very similar. Very similar, you find a property that fits their mold, versus getting a property under contract, Thorning, it's a wall and hoping it sticks right, so it's, it's, yeah, buyers isn't essential. All right, I'm gonna go to the next slide. I'm so closing the deal, you use a purchase agreement. They're pretty standard. You can create one on chat GBT, there's templates. If you guys need one, I can send you one. There's templates online as well too. There's gonna be two agreement. There's gonna be multiple agreements. There's neither one. Would one? Would we have your direct to seller? And then there's going to be the reassignment contract. And once you reassign the this the contract between you and the seller to the buyer. So what happens is the buyer, basically, when you reassign the contract, the buyer takes your place on the contract there, and then they're paying that higher amount. It's very important to find a, as it says here, a wholesale, friendly escrow title company. And it's easy to do again, word of mouth. You can ask other people, wholesalers. You can Google them, Facebook. But the easiest thing to do is, even if you get a referral, always call the company and say, Hey, Are you guys familiar with wholesaling? Not wholesaling, I would say, assignable contracts. Have you worked with them before? And they're typically going to say yes or no. Most of the time they say yes, because wholesaling is very prevalent, because if they say no, then one, they don't like hosts, they don't work with wholesalers, or just, they could just boggle the deal. And obviously you don't want to do that. And then after the after closing, you collect your assignment fee, which I have is $10,000 because that's what it usually is. But prior to that, so the last bullet, when you're looking at a property and you want to figure out how. She want to offer the seller, if this, if this is a cash deal, right, if I'm going to buy this for cash. So we want to take 65% of the ARV. So if a property is worth, let's say, $100,000 and they keep using that number, we want to offer 65% the property is turnkey, ready to go. Then they'll we'll take the 60, $65,000 and we'll cut out the repairs and subtract your assignment fee. So if we want $10,000 property doesn't need the property is pretty turn key. We're offering the seller $55,000 property needs repairs. Let's say cosmetic $10,000 impaired. And we're taking subtracting 10,000 bringing that down to 55,000 and another 10,000 so $20,000 total, off of the off of the offer, amount property you will offer the owner, seller, $45,000 that's what we call a max. It should be Mao, I forgot the allowable, Max allowable offer when it comes to cash in California, because everything's so inflated, I get closer to point 7% I'll do 70% just because, depending where you're at, like LA San Diego, Orange County, even in the hood, properties go for very high especially in Orange County too. Smaller markets where real estate is more finite,

Unknown Speaker  26:28
the property values are strong.

Speaker 1  26:33
Now on the flip side, and I think it's the next slide, yeah, so we'll talk any any questions about this, actually about closing the deal.

Unknown Speaker  26:43
What, what is your go to way to determine, ARV,

Speaker 1  26:47
I use two sites. I'll use Redfin and Redfin as a comparable property, typically, speaking with Redfin, will have the comparable properties down below in the listing, and I go on their little map, and I basically have, I maintain within a 250 square foot margin. So it's 2050 square foot smaller or bigger, and it has a similar between, like one or one, one or two, no one bedrooms, like if it's a three, for example, if I have a three one and it's a four one, I'll use that as a comp, as long as it's within the same square footage range. And it can't be the property cannot be separated by a main road. Obviously can't be like across a creek, yeah. So it has to be, they have to be close, has to be within, ideally, a mile, maybe a little bit more, and it can get tricky, but I'll use comms that are within 12 months. And I also use another site called pelego. That site basically is I like that site, because not only does it give you comps, you can adjust, for example, if the property, excuse me, the property had worked on or was modified, and let's say there's an extra bedroom or extra bedroom or extra bathroom. You add that in, it'll change the ARV, and then it pulls up the comps, and it just gives you the ARV. I will still look at the comps and make sure that they're very similar and saying, Okay, it's an 800,000 ARV. Let's look at the comps. Yeah, that looks about right. Oh no. It's could be a little less, or actually, no, maybe more like these comps. These comps are much higher let's say I can do 830 and then with that website, it also give you the three different investment strategies. So buy and hold, fix and flip, and then I think just rent. I always go with the buy and hold, because as a wholesaler, I'm going to be selling to someone who's going to renovate the property, whether or not they're, they're they're renting it out or flipping it, but it gives me a calculator. Say, Okay, they buy it. If I sell to that this much, they buy it this much, and they need to put this much work in. They need to make at least a 10% ROI on when they flip it. So I use those sites. Zillow is actually I like Zillow better when it comes to comping properties, because I don't know, maybe they just have a larger database, but they will have a lot more comps, and it just for whatever reason they're just their UI is a little bit better when it comes to looking at looking at older properties or looking at properties that are listed or sold within a year, whereas Redfin, I think it's a little more limited, but I like I typically use Redfin more, just because I like the UI better and I'm able to the keyword search is pretty good as well.

Speaker 2  29:27
I've been able to use Zillow and the Map View and then change it to lot lines, and then you can, you can just go through the whole neighborhood and see the Zestimate for everything, and it's just like a good global view of that neighborhood and location within the city. That works pretty good too.

Speaker 1  29:46
Do you? Do you? Do you trust?

Speaker 2  29:50
Estimate, no, but I think it's a good ballpark. You know, you can get, you can get close. I think it's one of the better ones. I think, I think that Rick. The fins estimates are way off, wildly off, a lot of times. And then some of the other ones that I've looked at, I can't remember. It's one of the more established ones, like, like, it'll show you four different estimates, and they are so off that, I mean, they're, they're within like, $200,000 of each other. You know, it'll be wildly different. And so averaging those is also a good alternative, but, but, yeah, I think, I think Zestimate is, is pretty as a is about the most accurate one that I've seen.

Unknown Speaker  30:34
Okay, yeah, I don't disagree with that. Actually,

Speaker 3  30:37
I can I jump in here for real quick, because, again, I just have a little experience. So I used to subscribe to prop stream. I had propelio Because, like in Texas, it's a non disclosure state, so getting access to the MLS to see what a property actually sold for, and I canceled a lot of that stuff just because. And there's always outliers, there's always exceptions to the rule, you always got to do your own due diligence, don't get me wrong. But what I was looking at like propelio, and they're pulling stuff off the MLS to see what exactly a property sold for, and then I'd look on Zillow, it was like, within $100 like it was crazy to me. It was like mind blowing, because I was always taught never to trust his estimate, which is, again, you still need to double check and dot your i's cross your t's and all of that stuff. But somebody finally put it to me like you don't become the number one real estate website in the world without being pretty darn close. Yeah, throwing that out there for Thank you, especially people are getting into it with a small budget. Zillow is pretty good. Zillow is pretty good with that, not perfect, but pretty good.

Speaker 1  31:45
Yeah, it's good to know, yeah. And Zillow is also, I like Zillow too, for comping and again, pulling up older comps, depending on if it's a disclosure state or not to you. Can you get your comps right there too. So that's very helpful. And, I mean, that's the best thing to do, is just pull comps of pull your comps and compare, and also look at what you know, what the property, your property, compare your property to that property. I mean, if, if a seller is, if an investor is planning to flip the property, then you can model flip. If they're not, then you have to maybe look at a property. That's not as turnkey, too.

Speaker 4  32:26
All right. Quick question, can you use tax records to calculate ARV? Like, usually it's public, right? So you can pull the comps for each property and, like, there's like a notice of appraisal, right? And it gives you like, a range of like properties which are very close to that the one you're looking for. So can you use that number in order to calculate that? I mean, of course, it's going to be a little bit off compared to like Zillow, but still,

Speaker 1  33:00
you said, Wait, what number do you or you said, cash. What? I'm sorry I missed the

Speaker 4  33:05
first part. Like, let's say, like, if you pull the number from the from your county, from the tax records, oh,

Speaker 1  33:13
tax records. Oh, gotcha, what it appraises at, right? That's actually, that's actually a very good question. I haven't done that before, but I can. I'll ask, I'll ask, I'll ask my underwriter. That's a very good question. Actually, it makes sense, because that's what the property that's what they appraise the property for. That's what the other properties, it's sold. So I don't see why not, especially, like, especially if you're comparing to other properties that have just sold and then they're appraised. So yes, could be a good method. It could be a little bit more work. Is then you have to go to the county and pull from the county, unless you can just do it online.

Speaker 3  33:48
That's all again, just I have a little I can throw something out there. I wouldn't do that. Here's and here's why. Some counties don't update their property records for tax purposes. Some of them don't do every two, three or five years. So if you pull a tax record and they haven't updated that the price values in 2025 are different than the price values in 2020 which is different than the price value in 2015 and especially if you have someone who owned the property for a significant amount of time, there's a belief that people hold to where the government and I'm not trying to get political here, so like, please just roll with me for 30 seconds. The government's just trying to take all the tax money that they can from, like a property and property taxes or whatever. But typically what they do is they actually undervalue that a little bit compared to what's actually being sold in the market. Because the one of the worst things the homeowner or a county knows is for a homeowner to be behind on their property taxes, because everything kind of stops for that county. That's not good. That they'd rather actually undervalue it to make sure the property taxes get paid, because for them to take the property back, or hopefully someone buys the tax lien, it's costing them way more money than the little bit that they get. So you're actually going to be undercutting yourself a lot if you're using that as a reference. So I wouldn't that's typically not going to be very accurate for that reason. If that makes sense, sorry, get I'm not trying to, like, jump in too much here, Keith, sorry.

Speaker 1  35:31
No, no, I appreciate this. I want this presentation to be interactive. Another thing you can do is honestly, they're they're again, I'm not trying to insult realtors or diamond. There's a lot of especially here in California, there are dime a dozen. Befriend realtors. If you're going to wholesale, they can there. They can be an excellent resource and have them pull comps for you. That's that is. I mean, that's gold right there, if you don't have MLS access. I I know so many realtors, even before I was wholesaling, I know a lot of realtors how, just have them pull comps for you. And on top of that, I mean, one call can kind of change your business. I connected with someone with the gentleman out of state, another state, and he's been sending me a ton of leads, one from either he's a realtor or we JV it where he is the He's the one. Bring the seller and I bring the buyer. So relationships like, just, just like with anything in business, network, network, network relationships are everything. And this has helped my business a lot, because I'm at the point right now I'm just a one stop shop. Once I, when I after, I close a little bit more, I'll be hiring I mean delegating, and me hiring an acquisition team, I can't, I don't have, I don't have the time to do marketing between my full time job and this because I'm so I'm so consumed with these other leads that I'm underwriting, which is great, but that kind of to step back is, yeah, build relationships with the realtors. They will pull comps for you, and that's pretty much, that's the comps that they pull for you. Are MLS comps. You don't have to do any guessing, and that makes it easier for you. And also they can, they will also, either they can also provide you buyers as well, and or sellers like they'll know people that are looking to get rid of their property. And again, the end buyer will has the ability to pay their pay the closing costs for the seller, and also include back, we'll include the buyer's commission. They're not going to pay 6% they'll probably pay up to 3% but that's still better than nothing, and it still saves the seller a lot of money, too, as well.

Unknown Speaker  37:34
Can I ask a question please? So I'm

Speaker 5  37:38
trying to, I'm trying to understand the process here a little bit. So you get it, you find a buyer, or, excuse me, you find a seller, find a property, you execute a purchase agreement, and it says we're going to close in 45 days, or whatever. And you have, I don't know, let's say, seven days from the time you sign the contract. I don't know what. I don't know what the right number is to do your due diligence, right? Sure. So So you go and you inspect the property, and then you say, Okay, here's what I think it's going to cost. Here's what it cost to fix. And then so you you assign a repair value, and you figure out what your fee is, and then that's your max offer. So do you adjust your offer during that period? Or how does that work? I'm still confused.

Speaker 1  38:29
Oh, yeah, not a very good question, and I should have provided more context. So I'm not going to go into contract with a property with a seller until I know, like I have an idea of how, what the estimate repair cost is going to be, if there's any so I will walk the property for or I will have them send me pictures, depending if they're out. Like I said, I do a lot of I do a lot of business in Texas. I will have the realtor, or have the seller just send me pictures of the property before the before I go into contract, I'll have a phone call with them and have an understanding what the condition is. So I'll ask you about all the majors. So roof, foundation, ELECTRIC, PLUMBING and anything. If they have sewage, septic, I'll get a I'll get an idea of what the property looks like, and the seller isn't gonna I mean, I haven't had an experience where the seller lies or they're dishonest because they want to sell it. They're more than likely they want to sell the property. So they're going to tell me what's wrong with it and or, like I will, essentially, I'll do a FaceTime tour, or again, if it's far away with them. And at the same time, too, I have a property here, 2030, minutes away from me. I'm not going to the owner is very difficult to deal with. He's very unreasonable. I'm not walking that property until we ran numbers. I have, you know, when I first started wholesaling, I have walked properties before, like before we agreed to numbers, but I, for me, time is more valuable than money. I'm not going to waste my time walking a property if I can't get into an agreement with the seller, or if I can't get into agreement with the seller on a. A deal that's going to sell, right? So to answer your question, I will get an assessment of the property before I go into contracts, so I know how much the property needs, how much work it needs, and how much it can sell for, and how much it can rent for it to empathetically.

Speaker 5  40:19
So that's that, that that I mean, like, for example, the trying to figure out how much the repair costs are going to be using photos or even even a virtual tour. Somebody like you can probably do it, but somebody who's getting started might miss the mark completely, right? Like somebody like me, who hasn't done this, has never done this before, would have a hard time figuring out what are the repair costs based on photos, yeah, and, and, and, you know, you could end up with, you know, a really bad surprise where, oh, I thought it was going to need, you know, $10,000 cosmetic. But actually it needs, you know, full, you know, the entire plumbing system needs to be redone, or something like that. You know, I mean, I don't know. I'm just throwing stuff out there. But, like, you really don't know, I guess what I'm what I'm trying to think of, like, what, what are the because, kind of going along with Shane's question is, what are the big hurdles, or what are the big what was the big? What was the biggest starting point, or issue starting out is, is, you know, trying to, trying to sort of guess all this, or figure it, figure all this out in a way, in in a way, in a timely way. And then, you know, so after you got, after you got your contract, then you start looking for a

Unknown Speaker  41:38
buyer, right?

Speaker 1  41:39
Yeah, in a perfect world you have that's why it's important to have buyers. You want to have buyers even like you want to have a list of buyers even before going to contract. Okay, that way you're not scrambling. And then you have an idea of what they're again, what their buy boxes. So what their criteria is, what they're looking for, how big the property is, how much work they want, some prop some investors will do a full flip. They'll do a full tear down. Some investors will just do, like a mid, like a medium flip, which is like cabinetry. They'll do some they'll do floors, not full gut. And then some people just, like, I just want to do full cosmetic, just cosmetic, so it's paint, wallpaper, things like that, where it's your your your innovations, 10 to $20,000 so it just comes with experience. I mean, there's, I'm trying to think, I mean, there's, there's resources you can there's, there's information you look up on YouTube to how to like gage how much, how much is going to cost. But what can help to, especially if you're going with a if you're going through a realtor, they'll have an expect sometimes they'll have an expansion inspection report, and they'll have documentation on what's wrong with the property. I have another property. I've been in talks with the seller for, I don't know, six, seven months, I don't, maybe even closer, closer to a year, when I started wholesaling, and the fire, the fire, the property was fire damage is a duplex, one of the units, the other units completely burnt down. The the seller has a certification of the main beam, a certification of fire damage, that it was, that like the that it has, that it's it's livable. So a lot of times, if there's anything catastrophic, an issue with the property, it would have popped up, and a seller is going to have report on it too. So you can get that from them. But to kind of answer your question, figuring out, like, how much it's going to cost, that will come down to just through experience. And I can, I can look up some resources. I might have some resources I can actually I can share that will, sorry, that will kind of give you an idea. Okay. Like this is a cost per square foot to retire. This is a cost per square foot for painting and and and putting up, installing a new roof as well. Or this is what election

Speaker 2  43:59
costs as well too. We actually have those resources in our resource bundle. There are spreadsheets out there that help you estimate. You know, you need a new kitchen, you need flooring this many square feet. You're going to use LVP, you're going to do whatever those are out there. And I think, I think Rolando too, what might be good to and this might be good for you to go through. Keith is say, for instance, you get one, you find a seller, you make the offer, you get the contract. You're like, Okay, I'm going to scramble to find a buyer. But a buyer, all the buyers, see something that you don't see. What happens? Then you know that maybe if you could speak to that inspection period and how you get out of the contract if things go bad.

Speaker 1  44:46
Yeah, that's a very good point. So your inspection period you want to negotiate not too long, but you want to negotiate a longer expansion inspection period, I will go for 17 business days. Days, that equates to, I don't know, almost three weeks so that, because that excludes weekends and holidays. So I just had to, I'm in contract right now with a property in Dallas. Property, we've gotten a lot of interest from homestead buyers, some interest from Airbnb buyers, but thing like, offers have fallen through. I was, I felt bad I was up late. The seller's time, renegotiating with her, Hey, like, I have buyers. You know, can we? Can we? Can Can we file this amendment? Because I was literally, I either had to cancel that property. Otherwise she she was nice, she's nice. She could assume for the EMD, there was no EMD that was put down anyway. Or we had to extend. We know the extending. But what happened is, what happens is you want to have a lengthy or a good size inspection period, and it needs, it should be business days, not calendar days. Because if it's calendar days, that counts weekends, and it's going to shorten your time. Because if you don't have buyers, or if you get buyers, they take their time sometimes, and they need to walk the property right. And you want to have as many people walk the property as possible as well, too. Another thing you want to put in your contract is that the sole I can, I can, I can actually copy and paste it on the chat, but the sole remedy for the seller is the EMD. So they can only sue you for the EMD if something goes sideways, right. So you want to have that involved too. You want to you want to protect yourself. Another thing, and I should put this in the slide, is you want to file a motion of referendum. I have, I can look it up. But what that basically means is that if the it protects your interest. So if the seller decides to go with another wholesaler, and they go to closing that that referendum is is essentially recorded with through title, and you can sue the seller for your assignment fee. So it's protecting yourself. And then you go into contract with the seller. They, they don't, they go against the contract, and they try and go with another investor, a wholesaler. They have to sell you. They have to pay you out. But going back to the inspection period, you want to have a good size inspection period, because that's when you're when you that's basically, essentially the time you have to either cancel your MD or find and or find, find a buyer that's going to provide the EMD and then reassign the contract. And again, estimating these repairs is you need to do that before you go into contract, because you're going to derive your max allowable offer, your max offer through the repairs. This property needs X amount of repairs. Okay, how much money is left over based on the after repair value for me to make, or for the seller for the buyer to pay my assignment fee, because if there's nothing there, there's no deal. If the seller is only willing to go down so much, there is no deal. You're wasting your time.

Unknown Speaker  47:51
But I know that was kind of long

Speaker 2  47:53
winded, and just just to expand on that, you know the inspection period, if you have anybody out there who has not bought a house or who is not familiar with the process, the inspection period is a certain amount of time where you can essentially get out of a deal, you know, you put it under contract, and you say, Okay, I'm going to pay this much, you know, everybody signs it. And you have the inspection period where, generally in an investment property or regular, you know, just purchase. You're going to bring an inspector in there. They're going to go through whatever, they're going to have the report, and you can decide, for basically any reason, no, I don't want to do this anymore. And you get your earnest money back. That EMD that he's referring to, that's earnest money deposit. And that's, you know, you put $1,000 down for this deal, and it goes to the overall purchase if you go all the way through. Otherwise, if you come out during that inspection period, you get that money back from escrow. So it's kind of your get you have a Get Out of Jail Free period during that inspection time. But once you go past that inspection period, things get more difficult, and that that's when you can get litigation, that's when you can you know, it's then you have, like, financing contingencies, other contingencies that you can build into contracts that could possibly get you out. But it's a lot more difficult. Your sweet spot is, for any real estate deal, is that inspection period, that's where you can pretty much say, Nope, I'm out. This thing's messed up. I'm leaving. I don't even have to tell you why. I'm just not going to do it.

Speaker 1  49:31
Male number cent, that's your protection. And it's also gives you that's, that's when you either find buyers or you This is when you have your buyers walk the property. So it's always good to again, reiterate, set your inspection period in business business days on calendar days, because weekends do not count with on business days, weekends will count with calendar days that will eat up your inspection period.

Unknown Speaker  49:58
So. All right. Next slide,

Speaker 1  50:05
creative financing strategies. We talk about this. We discuss this a lot. When it comes to businesses, real estate, you can we can not leverage this, all the same with businesses, but we can leverage creative financing. So first one is seller financing in real estate, that basically means is the the owner, the seller, the home, has a lot of equity. If not they, they outright own it. Typically, they ever own it, and the seller holds a note. So with the seller financing all these, actually, all of these strategies, the seller is acting as a bank in some sort. So seller financing,

Unknown Speaker  50:45
you agree to the seller on terms.

Speaker 1  50:48
So we're going to have, obviously, a down payment. We're going to we're going to come to terms on a monthly payment. Interest rate, if there's interest, there's a wholesaler, you're going to want to stay away from interest, because it eats up the I mean, it doesn't do anything to us, per se, directly, but when we're trying to sell this deal to an investor, if the if the property doesn't cash flow with rent, or the property is cash flowing, but then the baby, go back to another example, this other, this one, this one property that I'm negotiating with right now, duplex, another duplex. The owner doesn't have dinner, doesn't understand the concept ending of English, of interest. He he wants. He says, okay, we can do 0% interest the first year, but I want X amount of money. I want $4,500 per month. And I'm trying to express to the realtor that that doesn't work, that doesn't catch one, that doesn't cash flow to an investor, and two, that's on 0% that's like 8% interest. So sellers, sometimes I don't want interest. It's up to you to negotiate that. You have to let them know, hey, like I'm on your team. I want to, I want to get this property sold for you. In order for this property to sell, it needs to cash flow, right? So you have to come to terms with investor on interest rate, on down payment and on purchase price as well, too. And right now, sellers can be very keen on interest rate, which I don't blame them. Typically, someone looking to someone sell it, someone who is going to engage in seller finance with you. This is someone who's going to who a lot of times has money or isn't, per se, in a financial bind because they own the property outright. They're just looking to offload it. They're looking to minimize their tax liability. Hybrid seller financing, that's kind of that's just that's like a blend. So when the homeowner has equity in their property, but they still have a mortgage on the property. What typically happens is it's similar to seller financing, whereas you're going to have a seller financing payment, where you're paying the sell directly, but you're also taking over the mortgage as well too. So by another property, another deal I'm looking at is actually this, this, this, do this other, the same, said duplex. So subsidizer property has about $330,000 owed on it. Seller wants the monthly payment on that has just gone up to close to $1,900 seller wants to take over, take that over and pay an additional, I don't know, 2500 that all Bill kills the deal because long term rent, which is very good there, does well. But you we the property is a cash flow. So it doesn't cash flow as a long term rent. It does cash flow as a short term rental. So I'm kind of negotiating with with the seller and the realtor on that. So hybrid is essentially you're paying the bank, and it's essentially what we call a subject ownership, which is the next one. Subject ownership is where there's an agreement set up with third party escrow company where you pay. You make the monthly payments to a bank, to whichever said mortgage company the seller has this the loan remains in the name of the seller. The investor does not take on the loan. They are essentially their name doesn't go on the loan. They're there, but they are responsible for the loan. So there's a there's there's measures in place that will protect the seller. So for example, if the investor goes delinquent alone, they can take the property back. So the idea is to protect the seller and also make it easier seamless for the investor to come in and take over the mortgage. So subject ownership or hybrid is where you are hybrid is where you're taking over the mortgage, and you're also paying the seller direct to monthly or however, however, the the arrangement is is made, and a lot of times, too, depending on the size of the loan, we'll also have a balloon payment towards the end of the term. So for example, if there's a 10 year term and there's $20,000 left over after the term, a $20,000 balance left over, there'll be a $20,000 balloon due at the end of the term, with a subject to ownership. What that is is you're taking over the monthly payments the mortgage, and you're you're basically. There's no There's no seller financing. You're not paying the seller anything additional. This is for someone that's in the more of a distressed situation, and they are the event well, and I say you the investor, or the investor will take over the mortgage, and you'll pay, you pay the the seller some cash, like a down payment at closing as well, too. And then the entry fee is the down payment. So the entry fee is essentially what the buyer, or the end buyer, the investor covers. So the entry fee is going to cover the down payment to the seller, and it's going to cover your your assignment fee. It's it's not very it's important. The ideal entry fees will be at 10% or less, because the the seller, the investor, is going to want to want to pay no more than 20% if not less, ideally, 20% max entry fee into the property, so 20% of the purchase price, and on top of the down payment, the down payment and your assignment fee, if the realtors involved, they'll cover they that that realtor commission needs to kind of fit within, within that threshold, and then also closing costs as well. To closing costs cut the buyers, and it could be covering closing costs so that that all needs to fit. So it's important to have as low of an entry fee as possible, because then the property will cash flow from the help the property cash flow from year one. We use these properties with little little equity, okay, so properties with low equity, again, will be like a sub two or or a hybrid. The good thing about seller financing is that you can get the buyer asking price. So the buyer is looking for $500,000 or whatever $250,000 you can do that because it gives the seller the ability to to to basically, instead of coming up how cash, they're leveraging a bank, they're leveraging seller financing. They're they're not, they're not using their own money to to all their own cash to purchase the property. So it gives them time to cash flow and at the same time pay the pay back the loan to the seller and or the bank as well too. And depending on, depending on the the terms of the agreement they have with the seller, they can refinance out of that, pay the seller back and be completely break, not break ties, but be out of the loan with the seller, essentially, and have an independent loan that way, the seller is happy. If the if the investor finds has better terms with the bank or their lender, they're happy as well too. So it's, it's seller finance is a lot more flexible than cash, because cash, it's x, it's, it's more, I guess, a little bit more structured. You have to be within certain numbers to sell the property where seller financing, you can be very, as I say, creative also, I mean, like it we I've come across people that I've come across homeowners that they just want to get off the loan, they'll take a couple grand of closing, and they want to get out the loan, and they don't want this affect their credit more because they're in debt, they have arrears where they need to that need to be paid off, so they're okay with walking away with a few grand and and you taking over the mortgage. So there's there, there's situations like that. So I said this, like buying a business, every situation is different. It just depends how much the seller owes. They have any life events, the repairs of the property and what needs to be done on the property as well, too. Does anyone have any questions? And I went off, I was a little bit of a tangent. But this is seller financing. There's a lot to it,

Speaker 2  58:29
or creative finance. So what is your take on? I don't I'm not sure if you the Richard Taylor method, the hold my hand wholesale thing, where So, so what they they essentially do, and what he teaches people to do is take so find somebody that has some equity, but they're they might be underwater on their mortgage, where, say, they have $50,000 in equity, he'll offer them 60,000 in cash, and then for them to put it into a trust, and then he'll sell the trust to someone else that will then take over the mortgage at that low rate. So he's looking for low interest rate mortgages with people that are in trouble. But it's but it's that whole putting in into a trust and then selling the trust, transferring the trust to someone. What do you think about that technique?

Speaker 1  59:21
I haven't. I've watched a few of his videos. I haven't seen that. I think, I don't think it's a bad strategy. Again, you just have to find the right seller to do that, especially when you start getting into estate planning. Well, you as the, I guess, wholesaler puts into a trust. So yeah, it's not a bad idea. And then obviously he basically just tacks on an additional assignment fee onto that trust, or onto that, onto that, onto the deed.

Unknown Speaker  59:46
Yeah, so, yeah, it's not a bad idea.

Speaker 1  59:50
People like that, though. I mean, wholesaling, it's not easy. It can be a grind, but it is. It's just it's pretty simplistic and straightforward. You just have to put in the work. Also just make the right connections and network. Because especially with realtors, and I keep repeating myself, and I deal with them a lot, the they can be your can be your greatest ally, or they can be your enemy too, if you piss them off, if you guys get off on the wrong foot too as well, it's all about building relationships, and realtors will have the assault another property I'm contract with their realtor, and I submitted an offer for one property didn't work, but she's like, Okay, I have this other property. Let's, let's take a look at that. Now. We're in contract, right? So at the end of the day, it's, it's essentially who you know, and both on the seller, end realtor and and also on the buyer end, too, too. Anyone have any other questions in terms of seller financing? Another strategy I haven't done myself, thinking about doing with like a large property, like, let's say, on an apartment complex, or just the portfolio properties, is instead of asking to be, instead of structuring the deal where I'm paid out on assignment fee, basically just negotiating interest with the with the investor. So when that property does sell, or if they just buy and hold them, I'm, I'm taking in dividends, or I am taking a much larger number when the property does sell as well too. Or properties, the portfolio sells. So that's, that's something to that's, that's something to keep in mind, as well as translating your whole selling fee into into interest, into the into said property.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:50
All right, last slide,

Speaker 1  1:01:54
basically, yeah. What's on on here? What I've been talking about is, oh yeah, build a pipeline of buyers going mastering wholesaling. I mean, it just it comes with experience. You want to network. You want to build rapport with a seller. So again, you're you're problem solving, like with almost any business, your problem problem solving, building rapport with sellers. And this takes time. As I mentioned, I've been talking to one seller for close to, I don't know, eight months, and I'm, I guess, to the point where now, like he reaches out to me with updates, instead of me chasing him, I built, you know, I built go rapport with him. You want to understand, like, what the seller is dealing with every, every seller has their own case by case. I guess there has their own particular set of reasons to why they want to sell, whether it's stressed or they just want to get they want to get rid of the property. And there's no one size fits all. So a cash deal might work for someone else, and where sell financing won't, and vice versa. Most people prefer cash, but seller financing, my work because, you know, they owe a certain amount of money and it's not going to sell. It's it won't sell to an investor for cash, or you can't get it under contract for cash because, because it's not going to make sense. On the back end, you want to build a pipeline of buyers. This is extremely important, because you can get all the properties under contract as you want, but if you don't want to buy them, then the, then the you're basically, you're essentially, you're out of luck. Learning local contract flows is very important, especially if you're going to be wholesaling in other states. Some states, like Obama ban it completely. Some states need to be licensed as a realtor or work with a realtor. And again, yeah, creative financing is very important. I use I've been using creative financing a lot recently, just because, again, you're more flexible as to into the into the price that you can offer. Sellers love creative investors. Love creative financing because they're not using their own money. They're coming out of they're not coming out of pocket with cash. They can leverage the existing mortgage system structure. Or they can use their their they can use other lending as well too. And, yeah, great way to build your pipeline is basically just starting with one lead a day, and kind of go back to their first slide. It's either driving for dollars, finding referrals, attending real estate Rei meetups and just going on the MLS, going on a Zillow, going on Redfin, and looking for properties that are have been sitting for a while. Another, another hack is just going into the keyword search and well, some of the deals I found recently seller financing, and you will find properties that are being that are eligible for solar financing. Keep in mind that if you guys do decide to do this, these agents, a lot of these listing agents, get a call from a calls from a lot of investors, or a lot of hosts, a holler of wholesalers. So they're they can be quite they they can either they'll be very welcoming, or sometimes they'll just say no and just again, it's a numbers game. So the more people you talk to, the the greater chance you will attain success with this.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:07
Any questions I can answer,

Speaker 2  1:05:15
when? So when you're talking to the seller and you're so say that you have, you're getting ready to make an offer. Are you? Are you saying, Hey, I'm offer, I can buy this for cash at this amount, or, you know, and are they saying, Are you a wholesaler? Like, what is that conversation like, you know, are you? Are you just, like a regular buyer and like, they're, they're not really, they don't know that you're a wholesaler, or are you coming out straight ahead and say, you know, hey, I have a network of buyers, blah, blah, blah, and here's what I do. Like, how does that portion work?

Speaker 1  1:05:51
That's a great question. I'll just be initially, I wasn't as straightforward, just because I was kind of learning I'm more direct. I'll just say I'm a wholesaler. I'm wholesaling the deal, or I have a network of buyers. But also, depending who it is, if it's a realtor or another investor, I'll say my team and I, we are, our message charges are, for example, fix and flips, buy and hold midterm, short term mental and wholesaling. So just depends on some it just depends on, you know, the numbers of the property and what the best strategy is. But I'll always say that, yeah, I have a network of buyers that I work with. I have, if it's a big city, I'll say I have several network. I have several buyers in this area, looking to, looking to buy an old or looking to flip, you know, looking for flips, which is true if it's in the major city, because there are a lot of flippers and, you know, in major metropolitan cities. But it's always good to, yeah, it's, it's always good to be more transparent, because if they find out that you're all seller, a lot of, you know, a lot of investors or sellers, and are kind of sometimes a leery of wholesalers. They're not all. I mean, there's not everyone, there's there's good and better everyone, right? So some, some people have had bad experiences, but I don't think that encompasses every wholesaler. So it's always good to be transparent, because you can be wasting your time too. They can say, no, no, work with wholesalers. So you want to be you want to be more forward, up front.

Speaker 4  1:07:27
Have question, yeah, what happens if you don't find the buyer yet,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:33
I cancel the contract within the inspection period?

Speaker 4  1:07:37
Okay, yeah, and you have that clause right in that contract?

Speaker 1  1:07:42
Yeah, it's, it's, it's essentially implied that the inspection period you come to a you said, you agree on a number of of, of days. Again, you always, always tend to go, always go business days of how long it is. So from that effective contract day you then you say, Okay, it's 17 business days. It's June 28 right? I have to cancel, like, if I can't find a buyer by June 28 I'm canceling the contract, and I can renegotiate with the seller. Or, you know, if the property doesn't sell, also, you know, you have, you have a good deal when it typically, when you get a lot of interest, right off the bat, if you don't have a good if you're not getting a lot of interest, so you really have to push the property, then property, then it's probably not a good deal, and you probably should get out of it anyway, or renegotiate with the seller. And I've had a I've had a few where I got into high with the seller and they can sell the property. Okay, thanks. Yeah, you're welcome.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:46
Anyone have any other questions?

Speaker 2  1:09:04
Okay, oh, was that the last slide? Keith, yeah, okay, yeah. I think, I think one thing to take away from this too, is all the skills that are required for wholesaling are the same skills that are required for business acquisition are the same skills that are required for side hustles you're dealing you know, we're talking about salesmanship, networking, being able to talk to people, being able to know where value is. Those intangible things are more important to your financial future than just about anything else, than any degree from any university, like those things that you can learn them. But at you know, at a certain point you just have to start venturing out there, meeting people, throwing out what you're trying to do, like, Hey, I'm in this business. I'm looking to buy. Buy properties for cash, or I'm looking to buy businesses, or I'm looking to do this, or that, you just have to start doing it. You know, we can. We can talk about wholesaling. We can talk about business acquisition for years and not actually doing anything. But you're much better off to just start. So I don't care if, you're interested in wholesaling, if you just get on Zillow and start looking at properties, if you get on Redfin and just start seeing, you know, in your state, what things cost, you know, what a distressed property looks like, drive around, you know, whatever it is, just take action toward that goal. If that's what you're interested in, and I just, I don't know, it always just becomes apparent to me, all this stuff, when it comes to entrepreneurship and making money on the side and investing, all encompass the same skill set. And if you, if you can master those skills, you can pretty much find success in all of those areas. I don't care if, if, if it's buying a business and going in and managing employees, or if it's dealing with a network of buyers and being able to cold call people and just, you know, deal with people not wanting to be called like those, those skills are, will get you further than just about anything else. So, yeah, thanks, Keith. I really appreciate you. Know, you putting the work in for this and kind of explaining the process. It's very helpful, and I hope that that people learn a lot from it. I know I did, so I really appreciate it.

Speaker 1  1:11:34
Yeah, no. Thank you for giving me this opportunity. It did help me as well, and kind of to piggyback on what Shane said. Yeah, these, these skills are transferable, because, again, your sales is, when it comes to business, sales is, is essential. You do it or someone. You hire someone to do it for you, and you're, again, you're, you're networking, you're connecting with people, and you're, you're solving their problems. I believe that's transferable across the board when it comes to business too, as well, also negotiation. So but yeah, thank you. Thank you, Shane, appreciate you again giving this opportunity. Yeah, definitely, definitely, all right, stop. Shane.
