Speaker 1  00:03
Hello, everyone. This is the money language mentorship, Q and A. This. The date is April 17, 2025, and we just came out of a class talking about networking and reaching out and meeting people and how valuable that can be to your investing or acquisition career. So we're just going to open up the floor to questions. If anybody has any kind of question about investing or has a business want to go over anything, what you got.

Speaker 2  00:41
So the deeper I'm diving into this, I'm getting pretty deep, the harder I'm finding it like I assume brokers are like salesmen, and they'd be really excited to hear from you, and really nice and responsive. And it seems like the bigger amount of deals, like when they cost more, they're kind of not the greatest. They're responding. They're not very nice. Yeah, one guy was, like, very short with his answers, and he was asking a solution. It was like an HVAC question. I wanted to purchase a really, really good HVAC company, but it looks like they're a broker on the purchasing side, and they need to get to the broker on the seller side, is what I'm assuming. And their problem was that I'm not Roc certified in HVAC, because I don't, you know, I'm not an HVAC person. They're like, Well, how would you solve this? And I gave him kind of an answer. I was like, well, there's a foreman on the job. I could see, you know, can we find out if he's going to leave or not? And I've kind of been muted since then. It's just kind of bizarre to me. Is that normal?

Speaker 1  01:48
Sometimes, sometimes an owner will tell them they don't want anybody that's not in the industry because they feel like, you know, they've been an owner operator for however many years, and they don't think someone else could run it, whether or not,

Speaker 2  02:05
yeah, we know that's not the case. My my best friend, is like an SBA loan. He's a regional manager for a big SBA bank. So he helps me, like, look through them. And he looked through this one, and he could disguise that sells it is consecutively, purchasing businesses for two years and then selling them. And so he's only been in the thing has been open for 40 years, and he's only owned it for two and he doesn't have his H back either, and he doesn't from Utah, not Arizona. So that's why I thought it was a great business. So like, oh yeah, I can, you know, like, I can step away. So it's just been kind of like an odd pass. The only people that are communicated are like the franchise, the people hiding in like an ad that really are franchisees. That's the only ones that want to know everything about you.

Speaker 1  02:56
Well, I mean, is this a big broker company, or is this a single person that's, that's a broker?

Speaker 2  03:03
No, it's, it has to be at least a team, because there's three people in the email, okay, like all talking at once,

Speaker 1  03:11
and so they're just not responding at all now.

Speaker 2  03:15
So it's only been a couple days. They were responding very quickly. And then the there's a gentleman that kind of took over, and he's very cut and dry, like, Hey, do you have the funds? What's your solution to this? And and I answered him, you know, kind of in the same way. I probably should have been nicer, but I kind of answered in the same way, very straightforward, very quick answers. And that was, like, three days ago, and he's like, yeah, we'll get back to you. But they were answering like I said consecutively, like by the minute or hour, and now it's just kind of been muted. So I'm guessing they're looking for someone else, would be my

Speaker 1  03:48
guess, or they might already have someone else on the hook. I mean that that happens and they don't auto they don't always show pending or under contract on the listing, because they still farm leads in case it doesn't go through. But it could be that, or it could be brokers can be jerks. They can, like, they, they don't have the same kind of, yeah, they make money when they sell or when you buy, but they also make money every month, as it's listed in most states, not, not, not a ton, but they still make, you know, just to have it listed, just do what he's doing with you, which is email back and forth. That's, that's a big difference between real estate and a business. They make money like that as well. So, but I don't know, it just seems like that they've shelved you because maybe they have a different like a more promising lead in their eyes.

Unknown Speaker  04:42
But don't give up. Just keep doing it. Just drive them nuts.

Unknown Speaker  04:48
Just keep emailing it. Yeah, every couple days,

Speaker 1  04:50
every couple days like, hey, still waiting to hear back from you interested in this. You know one's ready to deploy because it. Really doesn't matter what the broker says. You can even appear somewhat desperate to buy with a broker, because really owner, it's all that matters. When you get to sit down with the owner and you will eventually, that's what matters. And as long as the numbers work, if you have to overpay a little bit just to be the better prospect, and the numbers are still great, it still meet, you know, meets the criteria. That's fine, just like in real estate, doesn't matter what the interest rates are, if it pencils,

Speaker 2  05:31
the guy seems pretty the seller seems pretty nice about the sale too, because he wants, he said, even if you have to do half and half, he's he's able to do that.

Unknown Speaker  05:40
Okay, yeah, keep on them. I bet they have somebody else on the hook,

Speaker 2  05:46
and that's the problem, because it's the purchasing broker that I'm talking to, not the selling one, which

Unknown Speaker  05:52
is very confusing.

Speaker 1  05:53
Yeah, I don't know why that would be like a purchase, like you're not going through a buyer's broker, right? You didn't contract with, no,

Unknown Speaker  06:01
I found this like the way you're telling us through the

Speaker 2  06:05
business, you know, buy, buy biz and things like that.

Speaker 1  06:10
I bet that's a big firm. Is that what,

Speaker 2  06:15
basically, what I asked him is, you know, can you, can you name all the employees that are going to stay? Because if less than, you know, there's only six of them, so one of them, two is going to go, I'm probably not going to buy it, and that, you know, if they would, you know if the Foreman's willing to stay. And he said, Well, we're going to have to ask the other broker, or the selling broker, and we'll get back to you. That's weird.

Speaker 1  06:41
Okay, that is weird. I've not had that happen. You're always talking to the broker that's selling.

Speaker 2  06:49
That's what I thought. Confused.

Unknown Speaker  06:52
Yeah, I don't get that.

Speaker 3  06:55
Can I ask a clarifying question on that? Because I think this is great conversation I appreciate. Let me sit in on it, but are you? Have you talked to the owner, the guy selling

Speaker 2  07:05
it all? They won't let you on the paperwork. It even says, Don't contact gotcha, yeah? Like I could be breaching their contract.

Speaker 1  07:14
Yeah, that's why the seller is has hired a broker so they don't have to deal with it. They just want to. They want the broker to vet that person all the way down, make sure that they can qualify. They can take it home, and then they'll talk to him. Then you can, I feel

Speaker 2  07:26
like that's the guy's personality anyways, because his his game is to not game, but his occupation is to make a business profitable and sell it at its highest Yeah. So I don't think you would be interested in talking one on one. On one anyways, he's just more worried about the numbers.

Speaker 3  07:45
Just a clarifying question to make sure I'm following what's going on.

Speaker 2  07:49
Yeah, no, I wish it would be I really do, but yeah. And so you don't think franchising is good, because I keep getting those calls, and it's hard to say no, they like make it sound so sweet.

Speaker 1  08:03
I don't think that franchising is bad. You know what I always say is that franchising is, like, it's better than starting one from scratch, but it's not as good as getting one that's already established. Okay? So, like, I really don't like buying a franchise that has been around for a long time. So so say there's a there's a different there's a whatever, a Jiffy Lube, that's been there for 10 years, and it's been doing pretty well. You don't really get a lot of benefit from it being a franchise, because it's already been there for 10 years. It has customers, it has all the stuff that you would get in the advertising and the systems that you would get from starting from starting from scratch. So I think if you're thinking about starting a business completely from scratch, you're better off to do franchising. But you're going to have, you're going to have a ceiling where for several, several cons are most of them don't want absentee owner. They want you to be an owner operator, and you have to sign an agreement. Yeah, yeah, I'm going to be here. I'm the one running this blah, blah, blah. Now, once you get that one franchise, you can buy another one and another one and another one, and you can scale like that. And then it's a different story. But that first one, they usually want you to be there exclusively. You're You're the owner operator. They make you follow their rules. They have pretty strict net worth qualifications that you have to meet. They have, you know, their hand in your pocket every month, regardless of what you're making. A lot of them, a lot of them are flat fees. Like, okay, this is what we're providing for to you. It's almost like a lease, an additional lease on the building. Those are the cons, but you get training for your employees. You get all the software that you need, you get all the marketing you need. You get the supplies. You get all that stuff too. So you step into a much more established model that is used to onboarding owners that don't necessarily. Literally have experience. You know, that's where, that's where it's good. But, yeah, I don't think it's bad. I don't think it's necessarily bad. It just has a ceiling.

Speaker 4  10:09
And I'd say the same thing in terms of most of them that are in the, you know, the recession proof type businesses. They're all the they're all these franchises, they're trying to, and then on biz by sale, they'll kind of say, Oh, we've been around for all these years. This, that nether and they make it seem like it's in your area and it's not in your areas. They're trying to expand into this area, yeah. And they want you to be the, you know, the one that's going to cut their teeth for them in the area. And what I, what I found that was a little, I don't know, I live in Tulsa. So Tulsa is pretty, pretty big area, you know, it's almost 1.2 million, I think, in the metro area. But they'll say a franchise is maybe 100,000 people. So you're only really getting this one. I mean, essentially, if you want to get the whole city, you would have to buy 12 of them, you know. So it's like, in like, what Shane saying is, like, they'll say, oh, yeah, we're looking to people, for people to do it. I've seen the little videos that they'll give out, and you know, you see a guy that says he's bought four or five of them. And I'm like, okay, and he's, I think in the H back when I went through and saw he was semi absentee, but was only beer serve. No, I wasn't, I forget which one it was, but right off the top it was like, he was, he was, he was, like, semi absentee, working in the office, but still doing his regular job. But I think the only reason he was really doing is because he was in one of those states where you had to have some sort of certification to be in the HVAC space, which I think is still good, but, you know, and one thing I was going to ask Shane a little bit about, and I know your model, is always say, hey, kind of like that old, you know, decade to decadence type of a thing, the three year thing they keep you keep, you know, rolling up and you're really done In about 10 years. I do think it may be something to talk about in terms of everyone, may not be in the same space or the same place in their life that like what you are, because they there may be people and you, I always hear you say this, I hate don't buy a business, but I do believe there are probably some people that says, Well, I'm making X amount of money right now, and this other opportunity is so much more than my current current salary that you would buy the business. Because if you're saying I'm earning 100k and this one's going to earn me 300k then yeah, I will, because it's going to service the debt and still pay for my bigger lifestyle or whatever. So I know the ideal thing may be, and it could be different, different lots in life, different places in life, like the guy who was 20 years old earlier. Hey, he probably has to, he probably has to age his credit a little bit more, but he can get more aggressive and say, Hey, I'm going to be like Shane and build, build this whole empire and get me 20 businesses where I'm kicking back in, you know, late 30s, early 40s. And I'm, I'm never working where you have people like us, maybe, hey, we're retired military. You come out of something. You already have a a a pension of some sort, so you do have some kind of money, but you're trying to level up. And you may say, hey, you know, I'll do this, maybe one or two of them, and I'll maybe pay one off in 10 years. Another one I'll use as my current income, because it's more than my income now. But there's, I think everyone has. I do agree with the model that you put out there is probably the best one that everyone would love to do. But some of us, you know, I'm 57 going to be this year, and I'm like, okay, 10 years, I'm not even wanting to work the 10 years I'm wanting to be done in about five so I think it's, it's something to consider in terms of saying, hey, you know, and you always kind of kind of say it in a different way, because it's almost always like, hey, what works for you? It's, it's kind of, you got to kind of take that into consideration. But I think some people think, like, if I'm not doing it this way, I'm doing it the wrong way, right?

Speaker 1  14:00
Yeah, you know it's, it's any investing has to be very personalized to what your goals are going to be, you know, and what your your risk tolerance. You know, if you're, if you're 20 years old, you can take huge risks because you have, you know what 50 Years of earning ahead of you to make up for it. You know, if you're, if you're 70, and things are different, but it's whatever you're comfortable with and whatever you want. If you have a job that you hate, and you know, we have some people that have said that in the community, many times, I hate my job, I want to find a way to make good money, but do something that I would enjoy and give me more freedom to do what I want to do, then there's nothing wrong with buying a business that you are, become the owner operator, if that's if you're comfortable with it. It just, you know, it's just been my model, because I do love, you know, my nine to five job and like, I know, I know also that if you have steady income in addition. Into the business, right? You scale faster, and it keeps you safe, because if you do run into some issues with the business, you have income coming in that you can cover stuff, right? And the you know, it's just the model of completely abandoning your job and and jumping on a business is a little bit more risky, because you're you have to take a salary from the business. You know immediately, you know, if you have slim cash flow from the business, you have to pull a salary out. It changes your numbers. But if you factor that into the deal and it still works, yeah, go for it.

Speaker 4  15:39
I look at it like it's okay. I have a, I have a and I could not if I wanted to not work right now, I got a military retirement VA, and everything else. I'm like, okay, but, but to me, I want to, I don't want to just exist and say, Oh yeah, I can make it. And this that I want to, you know, live. I live now on my own, with the job I have. I work remotely too, you know, I don't ever have to. It's just my the job I do is easy money. However, I'm looking at it like, hey, you know what I can do, easy money somewhere else and still have the security of the military retirement, because I'm getting it every month, not and I know most people don't have that. So I agree with that too, in terms of having the safety net if something goes wrong. Because truthfully, I don't need any of the money to make my financial commitments with housing and, you know, everything else. But because there's times I've looked at some of these jobs and it is nothing I love, none of these jobs, none of these opportunities, I'm looking at it like you are in terms of, okay, is it recession proof? Is it something that can be an investment where I'm making money off of it? Okay, fine. I would do it just because it's more money than I'm making now. And even if I'm, even if I'm doing semi retired, semi absentee, it's still less hours. Because my whole thing is I just want the time back. I just want more time, yeah, because that's the currency that's never going to come back.

Unknown Speaker  16:58
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I totally get that. And

Unknown Speaker  17:02
if it's something that you think will be fun,

Speaker 1  17:06
why not? Why not? You know, switch and pivot. You know, what a career that you don't like to that. But just just make sure that you weigh all the options this. This is for everybody, you know, the some of the stuff. So the stuff that I put out there, and the plans that I put out there, like the the decade of decadence, that's not my plan. I just throw, you know, I don't plan, like, right now, I can, I can keep going with what I've been doing for quite a while and be and because I love it, it's, I mean, I don't feel the pressure of it. Maybe it's maybe, you know, 10 years from now, I might feel differently and just just be over it, you know, burned out or whatever. But like, right now, I enjoy all of this, and so I really don't have any, any desire to transition out after 10 years. Now, maybe I, as far as selling and all that stuff, I would maybe put management in, you know, but still keep doing what I'm doing, but that's I just throw out options to people and like my the in the reason, like the lives, I always explain what I'm what I've done, because, you know, that's, that's what I've done. You know, it doesn't mean that that's what everybody should do. I just know that that's what's worked for me. But everybody has their their own goal and whatever needs to work for them. So if you don't like your job, or it's not supporting a lifestyle that you really want, and you find a good business that you can actually take to the finish line, that can really change your life. I mean, which everybody knows, like you can, you know, you can be making $50,000 a year right now and and save up and get business funding, or whatever you need to do, and buy something that's 600 $700,000

Unknown Speaker  18:48
and you go from making 50,000 you know, to 250,000

Speaker 1  18:52
in a year, like that is legit. And if that's what you want, yeah, do it. I mean, there's, there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, that it's, it's awesome. You know, you

Speaker 4  19:02
always hear people say, hey, you know, if I'm gonna spend eight hours a day doing something for somebody else, why can't you spend, you know, half that time or or even the same amount of time making a lot more? But I'm like you as like, you know, if something was, if you kept pumping along and making money, there's no way I would, quote, unquote, retire. Because if you retire, what's next? You take your social security, which is not going to be anywhere close to, anywhere close to what these businesses are are making you so I wouldn't, I wouldn't look to sell it either, if it's still being profitable and and minimal effort and headaches. Why do it? Why sell it?

Speaker 1  19:32
Yeah, I mean, you notice on the decade of decadence, I didn't mention social security or pension for one k1 time. And yeah, there's a reason for that. Like, that's, that's a way you can do it on your own. If that's your if your goal is to have truly passive income in 10 years. And, you know, pardon my friends, but f you money, you know, you can do it if your goal is to I want, I want a good business that's going to support my family, that's going to send my kids to a good school, support my life. Style. That's good. I can grow and maybe you can turn into a franchise at some point. Okay, but the analysis of that business is always the same. You know, you might not have to meet the, you know, the years in it being established and all that kind of stuff if you're, if you're planning on stepping in and running it, but the numbers should always be there, but, but, yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  20:24
There's no one way to skin this cat.

Speaker 4  20:27
That's good, yeah. And I think a lot of people that's not done it. It's motivational to from here, hearing it from you, who has, but I think a lot of people can't fathom just coming in like, Okay, I'm gonna be in three years, I'll be running, you know, eight to 11 businesses. You're thinking, hey, let me just get my feet wet with the one. Because I think when I first heard it, I'm like, okay, yeah, I could do some sort of business in this ballpark. But then when you get better educated about like, Okay, well, you're just last week, you're hearing, okay, well, the sweet, sweet spot for SBA is really 350, to 5 million. Yeah, okay, well, that changes it up. I probably still would never jump in feet first with $1 million million dollar company, but it does expand it more, because I think a lot of us are like, Oh, two or 300,000 maybe, and then I'll just do see if I can do it, get confidence in my own ability to do this, and then maybe change it later on. And I don't know how it was for you in terms of when you first started it, I would fathom the Guess you didn't believe in the beginning you'd be running 10 businesses in three years. It was probably, let me take, let me take this property management company. Is like, and then it's just like, a light comes on. It's like, Oh, wow. If I can do it with this, I could probably do it again.

Speaker 1  21:41
Yeah, right. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. That's, that's really been after the first couple like, that's, that's been my, my motto, I just keep going back to that well, because, knock on wood, it's worked out each time. So, yeah, I don't know. I mean, maybe, maybe at some point to expand into much larger like cash a few of them in, to get a few larger ones or whatever. But right now, no, I mean, it's working. But the main thing is, is to take that first action. If you don't take that first action, nothing's going to change. And, you know, you can look for businesses forever. You can look at real estate forever and never do anything. There's plenty of people out there right now with bigger pockets, pro memberships that don't own one property, that will never own a property. You know, I think it's what 3% of the population will ever own a business, something like that in their lifetime, let alone multiple businesses.

Unknown Speaker  22:45
So, yeah, it's just about taking action, though.

Speaker 1  22:51
That's the first step. Take action. It opens up all kinds of other options and avenues, because the fear is gone. You know, that's a big, a big hurdle right there. For one is funding, obviously, and the two is just the fear of it, like, Can I I can't do this. I don't know anything about HVAC, you know, well, how am I going to do this? I don't know anything about this or that, but you can do it. You know, when you're when your feet are to the flame and you're fighting for your family's future, you'd be surprised what you could do, you know, and all if you do it the right way, and you front load this work, and you automate it, and whatever, all the stuff that we've been talking about, it's so rewarding. And it just gets it gets easier with time easier, so that when you do it the second time, the third time, the fourth time, like, Okay, I remember when this was a struggle, you know, with the bookkeeping to begin with, or with that old employee that's been there for 20 years that doesn't want to accept the change. Like, you see, these things come the same problems come up, and you can apply, you know solutions that work before or come up with better ones, but like, it's nothing new under the sun kind of thing you just, you just keep churning through it, but that first one is scary, and there's nothing you can do about it. It's going to be scary, but no risk, no reward, right? I don't know. Everybody has to make that choice for themselves. Yeah, I never would have thought, never would have thought, never thought, even like five years ago, that I would own any business.

Unknown Speaker  24:34
You just never know what life's going to take you. You

Unknown Speaker  24:46
queen, I don't know if you've

Unknown Speaker  24:47
what, Shane, you've been doing this for about three

Speaker 1  24:49
weeks. Yeah, it's been about, it's like three and a half now. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  24:57
thanks for Shane, yeah.

Speaker 1  25:04
Because patience, you're looking actually, to acquire a business that you will be owner operator, correct? Because you want to leave your job. That's part of your motivation.

Speaker 5  25:15
The thing, the thing with me is, I think it's, it's not that the job.

Unknown Speaker  25:23
So here's my situation.

Speaker 5  25:28
I started, let me come on video. I started working. I came into the job market a little late, like I spent time raising my kids, so I was kind of like doing part time, part time. And then when I came in, I've always been passionate about business all my life, until I got to the United States and, you know, went to school and and then started working, or try to work. But I've always loved business, so I figured, like, because I'm coming back into the workforce pretty late in my own time. So I'm in my late 40s. I feel like I need to, you know, scale things faster and just, you know, be financially freer. And so I've always loved business, love adventure. So that's what happened. I started working my way towards okay business, but then I started and I didn't really understand what business was in the US. So what I did was I said, Okay, I need this skill. I need a skill set to be able to market myself better. So when I started, my view of business was very little, and I jump into my current job right now, which is more of like an acute care hospital setting and attached to a university. Naturally, went to the school too, but the nature of the the job is so bad that I'm like, What am I doing here? Because I could have been in the other place I was and, you know, just transition into business smoother and more better. But I made the sacrifice to get Acute Care Nursing under my belt, you know, and at the time, I was thinking about owning something in health care that required all of those knowledge. But then when I went to business school, not the regular MBA school I went to, I went to like a, like a local trade school, business school. And after that program, I felt like, Oh, my God, there's so much in business that I don't even know you know. So the scalability aspect of business caught my attention, and I felt like, okay, if I'm going to do business, I better just do business. So, but when I found you online, I jumped in. So my thing is, it's not that I just hate what I do, but I feel like maybe the place I am is just a horrible place, or it became horrible. It's a place like it's a government job. So people are there, are doing each other, and think, you know, it's all about retirement and benefit and, and I'm looking at them, you think I'm going to spend my 30 years here, yeah, trying to be pushing card at my old age? You know, no way. Hell no, I'm not doing this. So I love what I do for my patient but I just feel like I'm in the wrong place and, and I feel like at some point, the nature of the environment of the place, almost killed the spirit that I have as a nurse. And that is not good if you enter a profession with your heart like I lost my nephew. That's how I became a nurse. I don't want you to kill that because I love what I'm doing, but you are just treating me like, how will I put it? It's like, this is a trade, like you do it, you don't, I'm going to replace you. Or, you know, you're just so hard on everybody, and expect us to be compassionate to the patient at the same time, you know? So, yeah, I hate the place I'm working, but I don't hate my job. I love what I do. I think that's the reason why I'm still a little bit attached to, like, almost everything I do. I still do it around head care, head care, because I really love what I do. Yeah? So, yeah, I am looking for definitely. I am passionate about business. I love love, love business, but I feel like my biggest problem has been settling down on one thing. That's why I said whatever you said tonight was straight to the point. You know, I needed to hear some of those. I've been like jumping from here to there, you know, which is not good, but I do. Who hope to, like, acquire something. I think my biggest thing right now is freedom, freedom from freedom of time. I don't want to trade my time for money anymore. I don't believe in that. I feel like, you know, I could do something better with my time and and just be free, you know, being able to buy back my time and scale that time such that I can put things to work for me, so that way I can have a freedom to to be anywhere in the world and still be in business. Okay, so, yeah, that's

Speaker 1  30:35
a good goal, and with a medical background, it opens up a lot of opportunities that other people wouldn't necessarily have so if you So, if you found a business that replaced your current salary and then some, but you'd have to be an owner operator. Would you consider it? Is that something?

Speaker 5  30:54
Yeah, definitely. I would do that. Yeah, I'll do that. But that will be temporary, because my goal right now, after I've seen that scalability thing, and then with the opportunity that AI and crypto is offering right now, I feel like my focus has shifted, shifted a little bit. But in life, definitely, you have to start somewhere, and the more you get used to stuff. The more you go deeper in a journey, the better you become in general, you know? So I feel like, yeah, definitely I will do that. I'll jump at that, like in a blink. I'll jump at that and definitely take it from there. But my ultimate goal will be to be able to establish something like, I'm going to my 50s definitely I want to be away from trading my time for money. Is one big thing that I think God never want to do again. Like, right now the pay nurses are high. But when I look at the money like, Okay, I will tell myself like, Ah, no, thank you. I'm learning my skills right now, you know. Like all day I wasn't working today, but I spent the entire day, and then I figured something that I've been doing wrong in my business. I'm like, what? Nobody told me this, you know, but if I was working or looking for the hourly pain, you know, I wouldn't have discovered that, you know. So, yeah, right.

Speaker 1  32:26
And, you know, there are a lot of businesses that are semi passive for sale, you know. So we talk a lot about absentee ownership, you know, that's kind of the model. But if you are so in your situation, there are a lot of them that are like, say, 20 hours a week. So they say, well, we work the owners there for a couple hours a day, five, six days of work a week. Or they're there for two days out of the week. You know, they do inventory, they they do payroll, they do like, the the administrative stuff, but not the day to day. That's pretty common. And it this goes for everybody that that's listening, if, if you're in a situation similar to patients, or you just, you know, you don't, you would consider leaving your job for a much better opportunity and half of the hours, or a quarter of the hours, or whatever. Then, you know, don't click. Absent. Must be absentee on biz, buy, sell, when you're looking, you know, I would say a lot of times, just don't click that anyway. And you know, you might be able to turn it into absentee, if that's your goal. But there are a lot of business owners out there that have been doing it for a while, and they work 10 hours a week, or they come in on Friday only or Monday only, you know, whatever it is, like, that's a pretty good life. You can make, you know, 300 grand. You go in one day a week. That's not bad. That's not bad at all, you know. And you just answer phones every now and then. I mean, that's a pretty darn good life. And if you really want to make a lot of money, maybe you get five of those, and you just go in one day to each of those businesses, and you make 1.5 million a year.

Speaker 5  34:07
Will you talk about get five of those? I think my biggest challenge is the the financing and and just coming up with the money initially. You know, I thought I was actually in a better place last year, I think I got myself caught up in so many things that, you know, my business credit, my business my credit, has never been like it dropped from and this was my fault, you know, just juggling life and juggling private life issues, and I didn't Pay attention to something. So something slipped through the crack, and it affected me. So I'm looking like, you know, I really want to acquire business, but I'm feeling at the same time that, okay, it looks like I'm not ready because of my credit. And just last year, I actually was in the process of buying a house. Saying, and I pulled out. Then here I am, right now, my credit is not looking great. What happened, you know? So I feel like my biggest challenge, though, is like looking at stuff, and I tend to want to run towards the things that are not very expensive, you know, to start somewhere. I don't know if you know, when I saw that laundromat, I felt like, you know I could I'm still holding on to my current business, because you know, like, if you have a baby and you're so hopeful that the baby will survive.

Unknown Speaker  35:36
So I feel like, you know

Speaker 5  35:40
this baby is at the point where I'm just waiting for the last miracle like you had in your situation, actually trying to network with one big hospital, Shane in the Chicagoland area to see, you know, I was so close to meeting the regional, if not the nation, CEO, and I try to go through someone who is closer to like, Hey, can you guys give me something? Because they're opening a branch close to Chicago here. So I'm very hopeful that things will turn out. But I think the reason why I'm jumping into laundromat and stuff like that is an absentee at this point will help me a lot, to just boost me and, you know, support me, because I still work. I work two days a week still, and financial is not very sustainable, but I'm at that point where I feel like, if I don't free myself to be able to dream, I'm going to be lost in all these jobs, and I will not have, especially nursing. You don't have a life like you work from money tonight, it's 12 hour shift. You pretty much exhausted. So yeah, I'm, I'm I'm hopeful, and when I'm looking I'm looking at those cheap ones. So is that, is that a wrong place to start from?

Speaker 1  37:01
Well, I mean, I can only go from the one that you the one that you put in the community. So if you guys haven't seen the post, it's a, it's a laundromat for $50,000 and it's, it doesn't really talk about the numbers. And from the picture, you can see that the the building would need some work. You know, you could see that it's got, even if it's just minor work, it would need some work. And they say on there that the machines are toward the end of their life cycle. They need maintenance. And so for for those machines, like a cheap washer and dryer, like, per washer, per dryer is 5000 that's, I mean, that's, that's one of the cheaper one. And cheaper ones you you get the high capacity ones, they're more like 15,000 so if you think about how many are in most laundromats that you see, you know they've got 10 washers, 10 dryers. You know, at least generally. So that is a lot of money. So even if you were to buy something like that for 50,000 and you'd have to put money into because it's probably whatever, whatever, whoever the landlord is, is not doing work to it. So you'd have to, you know, freshen up the place. That's expensive. You'd have to buy, possibly 10 washers and 10 dryers, if you could buy at the low end, that's 100,000 you know, just in the machines. And then, you know, is it going to sustain it? So it's just tough. When they're really cheap, like that, it means that you're going to have to put a lot of cash in to get them off the ground. So I always say that you don't want to buy someone else's problem. And you know, why are they selling? They're selling because they're at the end of the life cycle on those machines, and it didn't make enough money for them to justify buying new ones or or they, you know, maybe they do want to retire, maybe, maybe. But a smart owner would have bought new machines, got good numbers, and then put posted those numbers, and instead of selling it for 50,000 sell it for 500,000 you know that's that's what they would have done instead. So you always have to be extra cautious for the cheap ones. There are some that you can get into, but usually you can get into them with owner financing for cheap instead of the cheap asking price. I'm always suspicious when it's 50,000 75,000 unless it's just a small bit, you know, if it's something that's going to make 500 a month, okay, you know, 500 cash flow a month, which is great. You know that's a car, a car note, if that's, you know, if that's, you know, what you're into. I mean, that buys your kids clothes, whatever. Now it's not nothing to shake a stick at. I think everybody would like an extra 500 bucks for little work, but yeah, just be careful on the on the super cheap ones. And this also goes for everybody in the community. Everybody in the community right now should be working on their credit. I don't care if your credit is 799, I. It can always improve a little bit, right? Just make sure you do the right things. And next week is going to be a credit class. We're going to talk about about credit, business credit, you know, I'll get into capital stacking a little bit more, because we haven't talked about that in an official class. We just in sort of some mentorship, Q and A's, but, but everybody should be working on the credit. Because if your credit, even if it's if you could qualify for SBA, you could get funding right now, if you got it 1015, 20 points higher in the next two, three months, you're going to get a better rate. You're going to get better funding, like it just matters, you know. So, so everybody should be working on it a little bit, or maintaining a good one, if nothing else, but you should always be aware of it and check it to make sure that nothing slips through the cracks.

Unknown Speaker  40:51
So Shane talking about the credits,

Speaker 5  40:54
they referred me to when I got there, I think they said the credit check and then upload it. So when I did a credit check, I was like, wow, what happened? But then I wasn't too surprised, because I got myself caught up in so much that I know I missed couple of things, and then it just came, you know, affecting my credit, you know, like just forgetting to do things or writing too much more can chew. But then the next step was uploaded, and they will meet with you. But as soon as I was gonna upload, or the next step to uploading, they wanted me to pay $500 I think the fee was $500

Unknown Speaker  41:38
and then, or before you uploading? No.

Speaker 5  41:41
I mean, once I think, yeah, before you upload it, or the next step to uploading, which is like you pay upfront before you even have the consultation,

Speaker 1  41:51
I shouldn't be like that. I just look, I just

Speaker 5  41:53
looked at it, and I told myself, like, whatever situation I found myself in, I know, because I've been here for 20 years now in America, and this is the lowest my credit have ever been for what I would normally that's

Speaker 1  42:11
not the way it's supposed to be. You're supposed to get. You'd be able to upload your credit report, talk to them, have a free consultation

Speaker 5  42:20
so it came, it came off as I have to, like, the payment was upfront with me, and it was $500 and I told myself, I think I got this, because I know where the problem came from. It's not like I had a horrible credit. So I just didn't continue with that. And I just told myself, you know, you have to, like, buckle up and fix some things, which I have settled down to look and put everything on auto, auto, pay, auto, whatever. Make sure you know that things don't sleep, you know. So I just wanted to throw that back in so I'm looking and I'm hopeful. I feel like, you know right now might not be. I'm not. I'm not going to say that. I believe opportunity will come, but I feel like just being in this community. I love the kind of person you are, genuinely you are just there for people you know, the first time I met you and the class we had this evening. It just goes a long way to tell the kind of person you are not holding back. So I want to tell you that I appreciate it because for what we are paying. The fact is, you are doing this out of your hearts. I'm not just saying this to flatter you, but I've been to so many places, and I have lost some money. When I tell you that I've lost money, believe me when I say I've lost couple of 1000s of dollars on this journey of business, you know, so I want to say I really appreciate you, and I pray that, God bless you, and I hope, like you know, we are in this community, we get to a point where it won't just be business alone, but like you said, we'll get to know each other and just be there for each other someday you never know.

Unknown Speaker  44:11
Well, thank you. I appreciate that.

Speaker 1  44:14
And so, yeah, I don't, I don't know what was up with with that credit repair onboarding, because it's not supposed to be like that. That's not what we negotiated. So I will reach out to them and see, see what's going on, because it's not supposed to be like that. You're supposed to get, supposed to be able to upload, and then they look at it and see, you know, because some people have some things on their credit report that can't be helped if you have a fresh bankruptcy from like six months ago. There's not a lot that can be done to fix your credit. You know, obviously there's some that's some things are insurmountable. But if, you know, if you've got hard inquiries, and you've got charge offs and you've got some of the things that can be fixed, collections or whatever. Or they should just be able to look at it and determine whether or not they can help you, and then then you move on from there. That's the way it's supposed to be. So I will reach out to them and see what the deal is, because it's not that's not what we negotiated. So I will get to the bottom of that. Thanks for letting me know. You

Unknown Speaker  45:24
okay. Does anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 3  45:29
I got one thing that's just been going through my brain, and we don't need to really unpack it all now, but maybe a class on it. I'm thinking might be, might be good, but i don't know i I'm starting to run into either limited listings on biz, buy, sell, or the different websites. And I started one of the things that changed. So it's funny, you're talking about networking. I'll just tell people. One of the things I started doing this week was trying to get on and just getting on people's podcasts. Talk about my story, talk about what I'm doing. And I kind of end it with like, I'm disc certified to teach certain things, or I've done whatever. And I kind of wrap it around by going, Yeah, we help people by letting people retire with dignity, knowing their people are going to be taken care of that they spent the last 2030, years, building a business, and that's how we're helping people. But I've only recorded a few of those, and I have no idea when they're going to be sent out and whatever that is. And I'm just kind of thinking through my experience in real estate, if I wanted to go open a new market, I know exactly what I need to do. I know what the cash conversion cycles are and direct mail and how to structure all that fun stuff. But the one thing I'm trying to figure out is, how do I start to find off market, not on biz, by sell businesses. And I don't want to minimize what you talked about earlier in the network game, because I think that is humongous, but I don't know if it's all making sense, but I'm just trying to figure out, like, what? What can I get? What can I do to start getting people who are just tired of working till 11 o'clock at night, one in the morning, doing their books back up at six in the morning, doing, you know, doing it all again. How can I get them to start reaching out to me, and I haven't been able to put two and two together with that yet. That makes sense.

Speaker 1  47:26
Yeah, so one of the easiest ways are, you on the Facebook market, like the those groups, you know, like business acquisition groups, off market, business seller financing. Like, there's there's a ton of them. And so you're on those groups.

Speaker 3  47:45
I Yeah, on a few that you, you put in one of the spreadsheets. Yep, I just weren't enjoying those.

Speaker 1  47:50
So, yeah, posting on those groups,

Speaker 3  47:53
which is just being transparent with that one, I think I've spent too much time on this by selling and all that fun stuff. Yeah, no, I haven't

Speaker 1  48:02
okay, because it's like we talked about earlier, you know, putting yourself out there, your goals out there, like in the community, if you put your goals into, you know, like, this is my Buy Box, just like in real estate, like that works on Facebook groups really well, I'm looking for four plexes in this area, within this range, blah, blah, blah. So you're on the Facebook group, and you're saying, I'm looking for these types of businesses, not real specific, like you would with real estate, but like established businesses that have been around for a certain amount of time. I'm looking, you know, I'm looking to acquire those businesses where I can, you know, I plan to keep the employees and blah, blah. You know, that kind of stuff is what appeals to owners. When you talk about protecting employees, because they're they're number they're number one and they're number two. Fear from a baby boomer, selling their their company, is number one, that they're going to sell it for too cheap, because they don't understand the more the market of today. Just like with houses, you know, you're like, Oh, I've been in this house for 20 years. I don't know what it's worth, you know, you that's, that's a rational fear. And number two, that someone's going to come in and clean sweep their employees that have been with them, you know, for decades. So if you can assuage those fears in a post, because you never know. You know, baby boomers, they like Facebook. If they're going to go anywhere, they're going to go to Facebook, you know, and see their grandkids, whatever it is, you know, they're on Facebook. And if they go to those groups and they see that like you're just putting yourself out there, or, you know, someone who just knows somebody like but you you just have to, kind of have to, kind of step, make that step, and it's awkward and weird, and you're going to get weird people that reach out to you. And, yeah, I know somebody, and, you know, give me 100 bucks, and I'll tell you who they are. Obviously that's not legit, but you'll get some good leads too. Maybe one out of 10 might be credible, but that's a good way, if, if biz Buy, Sell. Even expanding to multiple states in your 200 mile zone is still not reaping, you know, good opportunities and that, that's another one. You know, it you can, you can cold call businesses in your area next time you're at a tire shop and you see an owner that's like, wow, he's pretty old. Maybe, maybe he's wanting to sell, you know, he, he doesn't. His health has looked like it's, he's looks a little frail back there. Maybe I could buy this one. But you know what I mean, just cold call. You can do mailers. I don't think it's gonna work in

Unknown Speaker  50:34
No, no, no, I'm not gonna do mailers. But I was,

Speaker 1  50:36
you know, I call the same business every month, every month, because I love, I love this place, and I would overpay for it because it's really close to my house, and I like what they do, and they make a lot of money. But he's not interested in selling at all. He's younger than me, so it's probably a no go, but you just never know. I can still call him every month.

Speaker 3  50:58
You know? Thanks for addressing that. I There's no shame for me. I don't mind posting anything, right, like that. It just didn't it just didn't click. And I wasn't going to freaking lie, because that doesn't do anybody any good. But I don't mind saying, like, yeah, I didn't do it, but when I worked for the Rich Dad, Poor Dad folks, because I went through there, and then I was a mentor, and whatever that was, until you said it tonight. I don't know why. It didn't freaking it didn't click. You tell people to go, to stop going to so many RIAs, because there are real estate investment groups for all your market or your all your networking. Because usually it's just a lot of people getting going. But if you go to your chamber of commerce, this is what I'm I'm literally have the website that pulled up now that I'm going to do when we're done with the Zoom call, but I just look for the marketing. Like, whenever this Chamber of Commerce has, like, brings in a marketer to expand the business, like, usually, that's when I found most business owners, when we would go raise capital, raise capital from pizza shop owners who were selling somebody so much pizza they didn't have time to go find rentals, right? Like, that's what we did. Now that it shifted a little bit, it just makes sense to kind of go back to fundamentals and tap into that, specifically on anybody who's coming in and doing a marketing thing. Because if you're a pizza shop owner, you want to sell more pizzas, right? If you're an orthodontist, you want to put more braces on teeth, right? Like, this is what it is. So that's kind of my biggest

Speaker 1  52:31
takeaway, well, and with, with a background with the kiwasaki, you know, the Rich Dad, Poor Dad, I'm sure, you know, maybe digging up some of those old leads could be something too, you know, if you were in that network. I mean, I can only imagine the people that you met, you know, were around in that network.

Unknown Speaker  52:50
That was, that was fun for

Speaker 1  52:55
Yeah, cool, yeah, Facebook, you just never know what you're gonna get with Facebook. I've, I've met a lot of business owners and went to visit their businesses, and they're either so far I haven't found one that's actionable, because most of the time, they just are so clueless and their books are so messed up, and that's why that they're not going through biz by sell because, because a broker won't take them, because they want them to spend a year or two years cleaning up the business to make it sellable, and they don't want to do that. That's not to say that it might not be a good opportunity, but it requires more work, and you wouldn't be able to get traditional funding, but what you can get is seller financing more often and at bigger numbers from somebody in that situation, somebody that doesn't want to spend a year or two to clean up their books, to bring an accountant in, to switch to the software that you know, to a point of sale system that's going to keep everything you know, modernize that stuff, what you're looking for on biz, buy, sell, or when you're in due diligence, or when you go to an SBA lender and they want to see the books and the financials, so that's they're almost forced to sell or finance when they're in that situation. But it's going to be a lot of work, and it's very risky, and who knows if it's actually making money or not. I visited a it was a liquor store and a smoke shop, and he it was, it was also real estate included, and he was renting out the other half to a auto repair shop. So he didn't own that. He didn't have anything to do with it, but he owned the real estate, and it was one of those drive through, you drive through and get cigarettes and beer kind of thing, and then they had, like a little bar on the inside. I'm like, Well, okay, that's cool. I really like the real estate is what kind of got me there. So I show up and he gives me his financials, and it's like a little printout from QuickBooks. Is just very minimal what it says. And, you know, it did. It didn't meet the criteria. And I even told him, I said, Well, this, this seems a little overpriced for the amount of cash flow. He's like, Oh, that's not the real cash flow. He pulls out this wad of cash out of his pocket, and he says, This is what this business is about. People, anybody that comes through and they buy something with cash, it just goes right in my pocket. So, I mean, if that's something that that you're, you're looking for, and you would want to maybe, you know, capitalize on that and actually add that, you know, legitimately to the business. But like, he's, he's found some kind of way to to get around reporting a lot of that stuff and making a lot of money. But it's just not, it's not something I was interested in, but I've got my Buy Box, and everybody else has theirs. You know, he would have probably seller financed 75% of it, at least. He probably would for 25% down, he would have seller financed the rest. And maybe it's a good deal. I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  56:04
It's funny that you say that, because

Speaker 3  56:07
last week we talked about the 200 mile radius. That was really eye opening. Because I need to be if I want to get SBA funding, I need to be within 200 miles of Paw Paw Illinois, right, which goes over to Chicago, up to Milwaukee, over to Iowa, like, it's all good, right? But I was looking at businesses in Virginia because I didn't care, like, I just, I really don't care where it's at. And to make a real, long story short, the reason why I found out some of these brokers are accountants too, just not real estate agents, is because we got some financials from an auto repair shop, and they said the real estate wasn't included, but the seller would be concerned, like interested in selling that too. So we're running the numbers. The numbers look pretty good, but we're looking over the last five years of financials, and about three years ago, you see rent go from zero for the year to 65 $66,000 so and it was weird. And then when I looked at the name of the the business and the address that's associated with it, well, it's an S corp, which, again, is a flow through entity, which is comes down through whatever. Well, the property where the auto repair shop is is in a different entity. And so I emailed the broker, and this is before I knew he was an accountant, and I said, Okay, well, you still haven't sent over year to date profit and loss statements, and I haven't seen last two years of profit and loss statements, but if I'm making an educated guess, it seems as though what happened is they started to make a plan to retire, and they started paying themselves rent, further cash flow, and now they're kind of stuck, and they probably can't get you that information. That guy emailed me back within an hour, and that's what kind of broke that open. And he and I know I'm gonna, I have a meeting with them on Tuesday next week. But it was just because of understanding the entities and understanding that whole thing. Now I know that they can't go get that's why it's been stuck for a while. It's not showing a bunch of stuff. They can't get financing. It has to be seller financing.

Speaker 1  58:18
It just, yeah, and you showed credibility immediately, because you notice that a lot of people wouldn't know, you know, they reach out, they get financials, and they just, they ghost, and then, you know, they don't like it, and they're, they move on. But you showed that you you look through there. And so this is, this is very common for owner operators that own, you know, they own this building. They bought this building in the 70s, or whatever, and they're still in it, and they're not paying rent because they own it, because it's it's counterintuitive for business owner to pay themselves rent. It doesn't make sense. It's great for your taxes, but it just seems like something silly that you're going to pay your yourself rent or have real estate in another entity, and you're going to pay that whatever. But when they you can almost pinpoint the moment that they decide they want to sell is when they start paying themselves rent. Because it really doesn't matter until then. But somebody has told them they've either reached out to a broker or an accountant and they said, You know what, I'd really like to sell this business. And they look at the financials and they're like, well, you're gonna have to put, you know, rent in this, you know, because they're gonna want, you know. And it just, it's that progression. And you see it again and again from aging owners that you can, you can see the exact moment that they're ready to get out. And it almost allows you to know how desperate they are to sell. Because if they started paying themselves rent three years ago and they listed it and you know, they're ready. They're done.

Speaker 3  59:44
Yeah, interesting, yeah. Thanks for unpacking all that with me. I appreciate it. That's that was getting late for everybody, but I,

Speaker 1  59:53
I'll be up. I gotta keep an eye on this werewolf back there, so I. You guys see that

Speaker 3  1:00:04
gonna look like, like a 1987 horror flick in your office.

Speaker 1  1:00:08
It's going to, that's the plan. Yeah, I've got, I got big plans down here. I'm gonna put all my little animatronics up and I got some new stuff.

Speaker 4  1:00:18
What are you using me the animatronics.

Speaker 1  1:00:23
It's just Halloween decorations. But I always liked, I like classic horror films, and it's always, it's always been something I'm into, especially Frankenstein. So I gotta, I gotta Frankenstein that I'll, I'll bring out and put up. But I never had a place to just, didn't make sense to just have them in my house before. But now, like, the whole downstairs of this house is kind of like mine. So I told, I told my wife, hands off. You can do anything you want with the rest of the house. I don't care. But I want this, this room.

Speaker 4  1:00:52
You gotta make a trip to Orlando go to that new universal epic.

Speaker 1  1:00:58
I do, yeah, it's on the list. I definitely want to go, yeah, yeah, for sure. Maybe this summer, I might do that. Yeah, yeah. I love that stuff.

Speaker 4  1:01:09
Always one of the scariest rides ever. I'm like, you know, even, even as a kid, I was never scared of Frankenstein, because I'm like, you can just outrun him, same as the mummy, Dracula I was scared of, but none of the red, none of the other ones I was ever frightened by at all, even the werewolf, which I don't even know why,

Speaker 1  1:01:27
but Well, kids are terrified of this werewolf because his eyes light up and move around and like sometimes, you know, it's almost too much for the little kids, and we would have to put it in during Halloween.

Speaker 4  1:01:38
I got some for Halloween where there's this witch that is motion, motion detected. And you get close, she starts talking, but then at the last minute, she lunges out at you. But I know when I was in, I was in living in Overland Park. I was stationed in Kansas City or whatever, and you know, they got some pretty, pretty intense haunted houses down there downtown. It's pretty it was great. I mean, that stuff was over the top. I thought, 40 bucks to get in this place at the time. They're like, I'm like, what is the length of time that it takes, usually, for people to get through their life? Yes, like, a couple of hours. I'm like, couple of hours. I'm like, There's no way. And but it was, it was worth the money they have.

Speaker 1  1:02:20
I don't know if they still do it, but they have a place that I don't remember what state I just read about it, but if you make it through, they give you 10 grand. Oh, okay. But what they don't tell you is, at the end, like, it's basically impossible and, like, these extremely painful things that you have to do because you have to sign a waiver, and, yeah, it's, it's crazy. No, I read one like, that's

Speaker 4  1:02:43
called, like, the 13th floor, or something like that, where it's, like, the two. Yeah, they got some that, are you? They can touch you, like the ones in Kansas City, they the whole thing was, you can't touch them. They can't touch you. But people still got touch because sometimes it's just a human reaction. You're just, yeah, that'd

Unknown Speaker  1:03:04
be the money Language Academy field trip.

Speaker 1  1:03:08
Yeah, we'll fund business deals. Anybody can get through that. Haunted Hey,

Speaker 2  1:03:21
Kevin, you started asking the question. I don't know if you remember it, but I didn't. I didn't,

Speaker 4  1:03:25
yeah, yeah. I was gonna say that I would just be on the lookout in on the on the franchises when they want to keep talking to you, because, I mean, I know it from the sales side, because all they're doing is setting you up with these success it seems to be those successive levels of people in this change, but all it is for them is really just a sales gimmick, to a degree, to make you think you're somehow progressing through there. It's almost like a assumptive close, is what you call it like when you're talking to someone, maybe even when you join the armed forces, people would say, hey, next you're going to do this. Then this happens, then this happens, and this happens. And until you object, you're kind of tactically going through this, and you're you're agreeing. But I got to the point where, like, Okay, I'll listen to him. I'll listen to him again. Then I'm like, You know what? I truly don't want to do this, because let me focus back on what I really want. And I just told him. I said, Hey, I understand, you know, I reached out to try to find information about it. But what I didn't say is, the ad is kind of deceptive, because my whole thing was, I want to get into some sort of situation where you're at least semi absentee, and to purchase an existing business. And like I said, the way those ads are written on biz by sale, it makes it appear as though they've been in business in your area for all this length of time. So they meet the seven years or more they got enough. They meet the numbers of the metrics on the cash flow to asking price and number of employees and all that. At so it's like, okay, they meet it, and it looks very attractive. And I think what's probably most attractive that gets a lot of people to bite on it, is that the cash flow seems to always be more than the asking price. It's never even the third. It's, it's, Hey, you know, you can make 600,000 a year in cash flow, and the and the asking price, maybe 200 it's one of those things like, well, this seems too good to be true. And in my case, I figured out, well, it kind of is. And to Shane's point, is, like they, they are going to they're really just a marketing company. Is what it seems like, because you're always paying them to continually market for you. But they'll say it, it's kind of like how the military is. All they're doing is something on a national level. It's still up to you to do all the, all the grunt work at the at the local level, to spur and generate business. So I'm like, you know, I'm not looking to do more work. I'm trying to get less, less work and more time back. So I just said, Hey, you know, at this time, I'm only looking to purchase existing businesses, and, you know, not trying to waste anybody's time. So I don't want to go through, you know, successive sales seminars, basically showing tell me how great everything is. And, you know, it's just they say, Well, you can hire other people. There's that another but I'm looking at that still just cutting into my own cash flow on what this is,

Speaker 2  1:06:23
yeah, and I think he did get a little defensive when we started talking about it, when it came to, like, cash flow links, because I was like, well, that's kind of like your biggest concern. If I'm a franchisor, not only am I creating I have to get employees, I have to find my customer base, but I'm also very, deep debt with no no promise at all. And he got a little defensive where he's like, Well, yeah, but then again, you got those bad employees and blah, blah, blah, and you know, then you got the fire you want to basically start all over. And it's like, once

Speaker 4  1:06:54
the ones I was getting, they were saying they would basically recruit the people for you. Me being a recruiter. I really want them recruiting for me. I mean, I know you may have a system, but I'm probably more well versed in recruiting people than they are, because I got over 30 years of experience doing it, and I didn't like the fact that they're going to recruit the people for me. And another thing I felt that was a kind of a drawback for me, is that, you know, you get these franchises, the agreement is you're signing it. You're signing up for like, a 10 year deal. And I'm like, 10 year commitment. I'm not trying to be working for 10 years, you know. So I'd be one of these people selling an existing franchise, right? And, you know, I don't know how attractive that is for people.

Speaker 2  1:07:34
Yeah, no, he did get defensive, because I kind of said the same line where he's talking about, oh, you got to train people and what happens. And I was like, Well, you know, I'm not really afraid to train it. I was 16 year captain in the army, you know, I know a little bit about training people and, you know, creating requirements and things like that. I did start seeing it where it was, like, a little salesy. I'm just curious on if overall, was a good investment or not. Because they say, like, you're saying they're salesman so they know what, like pretty things to say, and I just don't know if they hold a whole lot of weight. And that's why I was asking. I think,

Speaker 4  1:08:07
I think it was still worth it, because, like Shane was saying earlier on, it's like, hey, you know the only thing is going to cost you is some time to figure it out. And I think, okay, I now have seen this movie before. I now know how it ends, and it now can save me. It could save me time later on, you know. And maybe I'm changing my tune a little bit, or the language when I send out requests for information, but hey, I'm not interested in any franchise opportunity, you know, blah, blah, blah, and let them know, right?

Speaker 1  1:08:38
How they get away with putting those numbers on there that so they'll take the cash flow of one of the most successful franchises that they have and the the startup cost from the smallest one. So technically, it's true, but it's not realistic.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:55
Yeah, it's deceptive. It's a lie.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:59
Yeah, yeah, it's it's fluff is what it is.

Speaker 1  1:09:04
Yeah, just be careful, because they're good at what they do. Do

Speaker 5  1:09:11
you remember the first business that I was very happy? I thought I caught a big fish, the very first class or the second class. You did it in class, yeah. So this business on business myself, it turned out like, you know, they just put it out there, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:32
yeah. They just put it out there and

Speaker 5  1:09:37
reached out to the broker. It was like, because the business wasn't really like in existence, and they were just doing it to put

Unknown Speaker  1:09:50
potential buy. You're

Unknown Speaker  1:09:58
breaking up a little bit. It's.

Speaker 1  1:10:01
Yep, is it just, is it me? Or did she freeze? She's frozen? Okay, yeah, your screen froze. Patients, you might turn your camera off and then talk is a lot of times that'll help. But for context, so one of the earlier classes we had, she brought a the numbers for a deal, and we put it in the analyzer, and it was a, it was a smoking deal. If it was real, it was like, DSCR of like, five, like, it was just unreal. And it was a, it was something medical related, if I remember, right? But yeah, so ended up being just a franchise opportunity and not even something that was real. It was a potential. It was 100% blue sky deal is what it was.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:54
You're not frozen anymore patience. You might be good,

Speaker 1  1:10:58
but you're muted. I think you muted your microphone. Okay, yeah, sorry.

Speaker 5  1:11:05
My Network is something else of an idea. Yeah, I was just like, you know, contributing to whatever they were saying. Like, yeah, this business is, I'm really, I'm tired of looking at this myself, because there's nothing. It's like the same thing since two, three months now. There's barely anything new,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:27
yeah, and we found that it looked really good.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:29
If you think about the economy too.

Speaker 1  1:11:32
It's, it's very strange time with everything that's going on. People are nervous. You know the stock market's going up and down. You just don't know, you know when there's, you know, when there's volatility, there's opportunity. But at the same time, some people that are comfortable where they're at are going to stay where they're at, whether it's a business, whether it's, you know, real estate, like it's it's hard to for a regular person to take a risk right now, because it feels like everything's kind of up in the air. So it is usually spring is a lot. There's a lot more businesses hitting the market. But I think right now, people are a little spooked, and they're thinking, well, I'll wait and see how this goes, and I'll give it a couple months, and we'll see where the economy's at. Maybe I'll list in so it does feel particularly slow this summer, this spring, compared to last spring and the spring before. Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:39
Okay. Anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 1  1:12:46
No, okay, well, this was cool. Thank you everybody for attending. We'll go ahead and stop the recording.
