Speaker 1  00:02
Everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday December 11, and we are getting ready to go to the mentorship portion of the evening. We just talked about what to look for when acquiring a first business. So I'm just going to open it up to whoever's got a question. What you guys got? Shane,

Speaker 2  00:24
Shane Anne, that one that I sent you about that painting company,

Unknown Speaker  00:30
is it safe to display that?

Speaker 2  00:34
I think so. Just there's the W or not, the like tax return that has the owner's information, maybe just not that part is okay, yeah, okay, yeah, that's okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:49
Share this. Can

Speaker 1  00:52
you give us a little, uh, background about where'd you find this? And like, what's what the listing? Do you have a link to the listing too?

Speaker 2  01:00
Yeah, let me pull it up here. I'll put it in the chat. So it's painting company here in Phoenix, Arizona,

Unknown Speaker  01:09
and asking price is 750

Unknown Speaker  01:14
cash flow is 300

Speaker 2  01:19
and yeah, I inquired about it. They sent me the financials. They look okay from my beginner eyes,

Unknown Speaker  01:30
and it's been in business for

Speaker 2  01:34
almost 50 years. I think it's had one the current owner has been there since 94 it might be a family member. I can't, I don't know why. I remember thinking that it might be somewhere in the information, it said that,

Speaker 1  01:51
okay, I do like painting businesses, the the margins are pretty high with with painting, it's, it's hard work, and it's hard to find Quality Painting Companies, but the margins tend to be great. Okay, so, so you said it was, it was established in 74 bought in 94 but it's had the same ownership since 94

Speaker 2  02:17
Yeah, and yeah, it says, it says that right there that has a good amount of information, like in the thing where it talks about, I mean, some projected revenue. They do, like, government contracts, and I found them on Yelp and stuff. And they did a lot of, like, the Nissan dealership, or, like, a big buildings here, and some other services, like, like, not like, you know, you stain wood. There's something similar to, like, rock or brick, maybe like washing but also treating it somehow. And, yeah, he talks about like, lead remediation or asbestos removal as well. I don't know if that's just blue sky where it's mentioning as an opportunity to expand

Speaker 1  03:03
could be but, I mean, the the the numbers look great. You know, those, those numbers look really good.

Speaker 3  03:14
Let's see. And it's been, you know, how many employees say in here somewhere, it was like, I two work trials, equipment, website and online.

Speaker 1  03:28
I love a listing like this that just has a financial snapshot like they know what we want to see. They're not afraid of their financials. They they put them right out here on display for everybody to see them. That is always a good sign, you know? Yeah, you have to have an NDA. But, I mean, they're putting what you want to see already right out here, you can see that it's trending up. They're proud of the numbers. Yeah, I like it. Five employees. Okay, that's, I figured they would have more employees with that much revenue. Kind of surprising, but it looks like, what? Two crews, two trucks, two crews, probably retirement. You don't have to worry about a lease. It's home based. Okay,

Speaker 2  04:17
yeah, and yeah, he sent me the stuff right away, and then it was like last week that he sent it to me, and I didn't know what else to ask, so then I asked him, kind of, what was the role of the current owner, and he hasn't replied. I don't know if it's like too early to ask such a question.

Speaker 1  04:36
I mean, I wouldn't think so, but this, this does worry me a little bit about this, because, you know, they're saying over 1 million and signed contracts with Major General relationships with Major General Contractors across Arizona. Who is that relationship with? Is it with that owner? Because that owner has known those people. Are you going to still have? Have those relationships. You know, the contract signed contracts, you're good there. Those signed contracts should still convey to you it's still still viable. But those handshake deals, and like, you know, Bob always uses this painting company, you might lose those.

Unknown Speaker  05:16
But, yeah, okay, let's, let's look at the numbers here.

Speaker 1  05:25
Okay, so this is year to date from January to July,

Unknown Speaker  05:35
and the other one has very much, 2024

Speaker 1  05:38
and 2023 okay, yeah, they don't advertise very much at all.

Unknown Speaker  05:50
Yeah, I noticed that too. The advertising was barely any,

Speaker 2  05:54
and I found their website and stuff. And yeah, there's no like, there was a Yelp that he hadn't touched since 2016

Unknown Speaker  06:02
and not much. I

Speaker 1  06:04
mean, that's that's potential, right there, you know, to do even a little bit of advertising, but if it's B to B and more commercial, you're not going to get the same bang for your buck as you would a B to C Company. I

Speaker 3  06:27
133,000 in payroll for five okay,

Unknown Speaker  06:37
is the owner taking a salary?

Speaker 2  06:41
I think so, because in the other document I sent you, that one has, and you can show that one, I think it's like, late there's a two I sent you in that message, yeah, yeah, if you scroll down, this has like, if I was reading it correctly, like ordinary income, I don't know if that's what Schedule K income, if that's what he's taking as the owner,

Unknown Speaker  07:17
well, this is a,

Unknown Speaker  07:21
okay, it's an S corp. I mean, as an S corp,

Speaker 1  07:25
they might be including themselves on the salary, you know, on the on the wages, because an S corp, you're going to take a salary just like you would, you know, any other kind of job. You don't, you can't take an owner draw as an S from an S corp. You what

Unknown Speaker  07:43
didn't compensation of officers be their salary?

Unknown Speaker  07:47
Is it on? Did you see that somewhere

Speaker 4  07:49
right below ordinary deductions, a little bit up.

Unknown Speaker  07:56
Yep, that could, yeah, that could be. It's not very much, though.

Speaker 4  08:00
What was an S corp, you try to keep your salary low, right, right? You don't have to pay the payroll tax.

Speaker 1  08:08
So that's probably there you what you would do is try to see what they're, what they're calling their EBITDA, and their their sell discretionary earnings, and see if they're using that as an ad back if they're, if that's like, if you find the numbers are for 2024, off by 44,000 or 40 some 1000, then that's probably, that's your answer, right there, that they're adding that back.

Unknown Speaker  08:33
Okay, yeah, I like it.

Unknown Speaker  08:41
I mean, I don't, I don't see anything

Unknown Speaker  08:45
crazy. I got a question. Okay,

Speaker 5  08:47
so, you know, when you look at something like that, you know, and you look at the listing on biz, buy, sell, it says it's home based. So, you know, do you have a place to store all the ladders and any trucks that come with it, because

Unknown Speaker  09:06
they're probably not going to let you park it on their property, right?

Speaker 1  09:11
Yeah. Do you have the ability to do that? You can, you know, put it. You got a spare room. You can put a bunch of ladders and paint cans, no.

Speaker 2  09:21
I mean, I am in a one bedroom apartment, so, and

Speaker 5  09:25
probably scaffolding and, you know, and where are you going to store all the extra paint?

Speaker 1  09:30
You'd have to get a storage unit, like a large storage unit, or warehouse space somewhere. I mean, you're talking about two trucks, ladders, sprayers, paint, all kinds of stuff, drop cloths, like, like, everything. So you would have to factor that into the, you know, expenses that you would incur that the current owner doesn't so, yeah, that's, that's a great point. Aaron, yeah, I

Speaker 4  09:57
think there was also a pretty big drop in revenue. Same, from 23 to 24

Unknown Speaker  10:04
Yeah, from 840 to 500

Speaker 1  10:07
Hmm, now, well, I didn't see that on the other the one that we were just looking well, the the listing, right? What did it say on the listing? It showed an increase.

Speaker 4  10:19
So cash flow. So they conflate that with weird ad backs, but the tax return shows you, you know what they really

Speaker 3  10:27
make they Yeah, they might. They might have bought some equipment to

Speaker 1  10:37
cost of goods. Yeah, look how, how expensive the cost of goods is, but, yeah, I don't know that'd be a question like, what's you know that one of the first questions that you should ask once you get the all the information you need is, you know, why the the downturn from 23 to 24 Is it because of PPP? Is it, you know what? What's the difference?

Unknown Speaker  11:12
Yeah, but, I

Speaker 1  11:19
mean, I definitely think it's worth looking into further, you know, yeah, definitely. And I love painting companies. The model is great.

Unknown Speaker  11:31
Especially commercial painting,

Speaker 1  11:34
you have to keep your businesses looking good. They're constantly putting up, you know, new businesses, new warehouses, things like that, if they are doing that remediation kind of stuff, that's even better, you you would want to look into if they're currently doing it, or if it's something they plan to do in the future. And then what types of licenses you have to have, like mold remediation, you have to have hardcore licenses, you know, post fire cleanup and remediation. You have to have a lot of licenses, so it would require quite a bit of research, but it definitely has potential.

Speaker 2  12:12
Okay, yeah, so is the next like step in this first pass of due diligence to kind of provide these other questions of,

Speaker 1  12:22
yeah, you did an NDA, right? And this is the they gave you this stuff. Did they give you a Sims two with it?

Speaker 2  12:30
Which is, yeah, yeah, it was like a, like, almost a deck,

Speaker 1  12:34
okay, yeah, that's the, that's the fancy thing the broker puts together. It's like the brochure for the business. Okay, so, you know, you're at the stage right now where you're comparing, did you get the tax returns to

Unknown Speaker  12:49
just No, these two were the only documents. No.

Speaker 1  12:53
What I would do my next step would be to, I want the tax returns for 2324 and 25 well, not, we can't get 25 obviously, but you know, the last three years, so 2223 and 24 and then that way, you can compare the numbers on the profit and loss to the tax return. You're using the tax returns to verify that the numbers on the P and L are correct and that they haven't inflated something, they haven't tried to hide something. And then if you know if that is the case, that the numbers are what you think they should be, and you don't see any discrepancies, then that's when I generally send out an loe. I'm gonna say, Hey, okay, I'm interested in buying this in this timeframe. I want access to this, this, this, and this, you know, you, you're, you're trying to lock it down so no one else can come in and swoop it away. It's non binding. But you just want to say, Okay, I'm serious, okay, but yeah, you don't want the tax returns for sure.

Speaker 2  13:53
I think if you scroll down, it does have those like, they look like,

Unknown Speaker  14:01
okay, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  14:03
Well, I'll just have to go into those deeper.

Unknown Speaker  14:07
It's, yeah, I guess it's a

Unknown Speaker  14:13
it's excerpts from the tax returns. And

Speaker 2  14:19
is there ever like I've heard people, I mean, just books that I've read, like, Oh, your accounting team. Do people like, in my case, if I don't know as much, have an accountant's eyes look at it, or is it more?

Speaker 1  14:31
You absolutely can, especially on your first one, like, you know you can never go wrong by hiring an expert to help you. I mean, what's the worst that can happen? You just lose the money you paid for that expert, but you they can keep you safe, and that's what you're doing, is you're paying for safety and you're paying for mitigation of risk. So I always, you know, last stages of bringing an accountant and I bring in an attorney. For the purchase agreement, because that's what they do. You know, that's what they've been doing for decades, is learning and what to look for and watch what to watch out for. So if you want a good CPA, I do have a good one that I can refer you to that's not crazy expensive, like a lot of them, that could just kind of guide you through what to look for if, if that's something you'd be interested

Speaker 2  15:26
in, you know, I'll message you, okay, yeah? Because I guess I can also kind of learn from them slowly, maybe,

Speaker 1  15:36
yeah, yeah. Just, you know, he's really cool, too. His name's Randy. So you can just say, you know, Randy, this is the first time trying to figure out, what am I looking at here? What What should I be looking at? What are the numbers that matter? What are the ones that don't matter? Do you see first, you know, you just want him to analyze it first. That's what you're you're paying for, the main thing. And then during the presentation of what he's found, then you can start asking those questions. But like, yeah, if, if you don't want to get into it hardcore and just dissect and, you know, spend hours going over these, then that's the only other option.

Speaker 2  16:14
Yeah, yeah. I had, I used, you know, on like Google Gemini, you can stream your screen, yeah, and I just went line by line. I was like, What's this? And I would talk and explain. I was like, What's this? So has that helped a bit? But, you know, you retain like, 20% in that first pass, sure.

Speaker 1  16:33
Well, you can also just drop them right into chat, GPT, drop the documents in there at in PDF form, and say, analyze these financial statements and tell me the financial health of this business. What should I look out for? Like, it'll do a ton of work for you. If nothing else, it will help inform your questions. If you do take it to a CPA, it's surprisingly good at that.

Unknown Speaker  16:56
Okay, yeah, I'll do that as well.

Speaker 6  17:06
Okay, cool, right? When it comes to the contracts that are going through, like from now till next year, plus, like the the contacts of the 30 contractors, couldn't he

Unknown Speaker  17:22
ask the current owner

Speaker 6  17:24
to, like, stay on with like, I mean, maybe this is my thought, like, stay on with 10% equity, so that way the owner is still in the picture, and they don't lose all the contractors and stuff like that, just because the owner is still in the picture. But then maybe Michael could ease his way into the picture over the next six months to a year, with the current owner still involved, and that way it's not such a black and white transition. It could be like the owner is still here. He's just taking a back seat, and Michael's now taking over, and the owner's here, if we have any questions, so that way Michael can establish those, the networking with all the contractors, get to know them, and over the course of two or three years, the owner goes away, or perhaps likes having 10% or whatever that would be. But is there a way that he could keep the owner around, so that way he keeps all the contacts and all the contractors and stuff of that, the kind of relationship. I mean, anything's

Speaker 1  18:24
possible, anything, you know, if they're willing to agree to it. But I think, you know, three years is probably not, not something that they would be interested in, even with some equity. I mean, usually they want, they just want out. You know, you might get 60 days to six months out of them. And anything after 60 days, you know, they're going to want to be on salary, if nothing else. But, but yeah. I mean, you absolutely can, and you could even, you know, put into the agreement that they do a like a meet and greet with all those people that they have the network with. They're going to introduce you, you know, put in this is, this is Michael. He's taking over. It's good guy. Whatever you know, you can, you can do so many things in a purchase agreement. You can put anything in a purchase agreement that the other party will agree to. I mean, basically, you know, it might not be enforceable, necessarily, if they change their mind, but you can put it in there, and most people will do it. I mean, this is going to be a bittersweet, happy and sad day for the for that seller, because, you know, they've been in it since 1994 that's a long time, but they're happy to retire. They're happy to be moving on. They've made their money, and they generally want to see the business succeed. So yeah, and why not? You'll get a better gage of that when you actually get to meet the owner, which at some point you will, if you continue. You down the road, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  20:03
Sometimes I see some listings where it's like, the owner will stay on for a week. And I wonder if that means, like, like, as long as I could text them a month or so down the line or email them about something, you know, like, Can I at least just some little things, you know?

Unknown Speaker  20:17
Yeah. I mean,

Speaker 1  20:21
so I don't know if you remember that we had a guest speaker that time. His name was Ted. He was the on the factories in Philadelphia. You know, he talked a lot, but he is like he was on for a long time, but he he told me about a restaurant that he bought, and the old owner stayed on for a week, but would not cooperate in any way with anything like not the credit card processing, not, I mean, basically, was just sitting there for a week and did nothing to help. I don't, I guess he was just a jerk. I don't, I don't know why he was being like that, but like he was upholding his side of the contract, and he just sat there on his phone for a week and then left. So you have to be careful. And then if you, if you get under contract to keep someone there, maybe you don't like that old owner, and you're going to be stuck with them for 60 days too. So you would want to put a clause in there 60 days, or until not needed, or until you're, you're comfortable taking over the business, is a nicer way of saying it, yeah, so you can tell them to, you know, kick rocks, I got this. Go play on your phone at home. Yeah.

Speaker 5  21:42
I sent you one of the listings I was looking at. Okay, and I redacted some of the information that they sent me.

Unknown Speaker  21:49
All right, let's look at the listing.

Unknown Speaker  22:00
Let's go on. Is it the same one? It's really not. No, it's not.

Unknown Speaker  22:18
What the heck. I gotta close this one.

Unknown Speaker  22:31
How is that possible?

Speaker 2  22:33
Maybe Aaron, when you it's it was still in your clipboard, so when you paste it, you pasted the

Unknown Speaker  22:39
maybe another one.

Unknown Speaker  22:44
Yeah? Because if you look at the URL, it says painting

Unknown Speaker  22:48
like in the URL message. Let me try it again.

Unknown Speaker  22:50
Hold, oh, yeah, yeah, I think so.

Speaker 4  22:57
I mean, they have the same name, that's like popping up and you click it,

Unknown Speaker  23:06
like in the URL, yeah,

Speaker 5  23:08
that was actually my fault. I i copied his and put it in a biz hub analyzer, just to look at it,

Unknown Speaker  23:19
getting ready to send it to you Now,

Unknown Speaker  23:33
there we go. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  23:38
dual state license, okay, I don't like it, you know?

Speaker 1  23:47
Well, I'm a little it's, it's a little expensive. That would be my main turn. It's, it's, it's priced pretty high.

Speaker 5  23:57
Yeah, it's, but, so get this so he so husband and wife took it over from her dad three years ago, and the broker told me yesterday they bought it at a 5x multiplier, wow, three years ago, because he said that's what they were going For. And I said, you know, would they be interested in, like, two and a half? And he's like, at this point, they're ready to be done with it, because he wants to go, be back, be a canine police officer, because he got shoved into doing the business. His wife talked them into it. So now he wants to just get out. So it does include some real estate. So I'm going to get, you know, the real estate with it

Speaker 1  24:46
and everything. Okay, that's different. That's different, yeah? And, you know, we're

Unknown Speaker  24:51
going to be talking around the 675 mark.

Speaker 1  24:54
Okay, well, if it's 675 with real estate, yeah, that's a. Screaming deal at that point,

Speaker 5  25:02
yep, but he is going to charge me to use his contractor license until I can get one or have an employee have one. How much? So he wants 5000 months, 60,000 a year. But, you know, I thought, first year, let's try $500 a month. Second year, if I have it, I'll pay you $1,000 a month if I still have it. In the third year, we'll bump it up to $2,000 a month, just to make him feel like it's still worth it for him to have it.

Speaker 1  25:36
Yeah, because otherwise, what's he going to do with it? It's just everybody's going to make nothing off of it. So I

Unknown Speaker  25:43
think, yeah, that's a good plan. I like it.

Speaker 5  25:45
But I did send you the SD and E that they had printed out and to profit and loss. 2023, 2024,

Speaker 1  25:55
okay, so was it just the two of them? Do they have employee? Oh, six employees. I see it okay.

Unknown Speaker  26:04
3500 square foot building

Speaker 1  26:12
is, I guess that that's not in in the city, though, right? Is that outside of town or something?

Speaker 5  26:17
It's right outside of town. Yeah, it's actually, I can share the address with you if you want to Google Map it.

Speaker 1  26:24
No, that's okay. But I mean, did you do you have an idea of what the real estate's worth?

Speaker 5  26:36
Well, that's the that's what's in question. Because over to the right of the 3500 square foot building. They started building a little log cabin, and then behind it is a two, two garage door pole barn, right? And so where's the line? How much real estate? They haven't decided yet. So I'm going to meet with them Tuesday evening at five, and we're going to go over that stuff. How much real estate can I have? Can I have an acre? Can I have two acres? I mean, where's where are we drawing the line down this parking lot to give us privacy for the business, versus if you guys are eventually going to, I don't know what they're doing, because it's still got the, you know, Pella on the windows and stuff. It's still, it's still being built, but, and it looks like they haven't done anything for like, two years on that little cabin. So maybe they'll sell me everything.

Unknown Speaker  27:35
I don't know. So Okay,

Speaker 5  27:40
I just, I don't think they live anywhere close to it. Maybe the dad did. Maybe he lived down the street. I don't know. I'm gonna find out Tuesday, okay,

Speaker 1  27:55
but yeah, with the real estate involved, that makes it a completely different deal. So are these okay to show everybody? Yep,

Unknown Speaker  28:10
didn't like it. Probably have to download first.

Unknown Speaker  28:27
Kind of renamed it so, okay, make

Unknown Speaker  28:39
this a little bigger, maybe not. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  28:59
Okay, 340, gross profit

Unknown Speaker  29:03
they pay themselves each 60,000

Unknown Speaker  29:07
Okay, are they leasing the vehicles?

Speaker 5  29:11
It's a good question I'll be asking that Tuesday. Okay, we're going to go over all the vehicles, because there was like three box trucks sitting out there, but then, like only three regular work vans. So are they using those box trucks every day? Are they just using the

Unknown Speaker  29:29
work truck, the work vans?

Unknown Speaker  29:31
I I have some questions. Okay, do

Unknown Speaker  29:44
so they're leasing something for 8700 Hmm.

Unknown Speaker  30:01
So that's not including their pay. Yeah,

Speaker 5  30:03
it looks like right above it, 117 so about 120 grand, 60,000 each, they said.

Unknown Speaker  30:12
And they have a rent

Speaker 1  30:15
so I wonder if they have an LLC that owns the land they're paying themselves rent, that'd be the smart thing to do, if that's what they're doing.

Speaker 3  30:29
Wow, 7000 a year for phone and internet. That seems expensive.

Speaker 5  30:37
Maybe they pay for all their guys to have phones, yeah, plus the dad, plus, you know, the kids and

Speaker 1  30:45
who knows, or maybe even a service to answer on off hours, things like that,

Unknown Speaker  30:51
questions I have wrote down. Yeah.

Speaker 1  30:55
I mean, it looks pretty good with the real estate involved. It looks pretty good. And, I mean HVAC, that's the wheelhouse.

Unknown Speaker  31:07
Are the other years pretty comparable to this,

Unknown Speaker  31:11
yep, okay, yeah.

Speaker 5  31:14
And then the other Excel that was there, was there. They put three years of SD and E put together the last one probably it's a good question. It might be that one. I wonder why I didn't label it very well.

Speaker 3  31:33
Yeah, that's it. I a

Speaker 1  31:50
trending down a little bit, and not a lot, not huge amount,

Unknown Speaker  31:56
but was trending up from 2022

Speaker 5  31:59
so, yeah, I was definitely curious about that, but not overly concerned.

Speaker 1  32:18
So it looks like they were paying two people in 23 only paying 124

Speaker 5  32:26
Yeah, and I bet it's back up to both of them in 2025

Unknown Speaker  32:31
the way the broker made it sound okay,

Unknown Speaker  32:39
which would explain the extra cash flow.

Speaker 5  32:53
So, would you go, you know, would you do the Ibra, or would you do the SD and E like, you know, if you did two and a half on the, you know, SD and E you're looking at two or 675, you know,

Speaker 1  33:10
yeah, I mean, so, so, the whole thing with, with EBITDA is, you know, it, it allows you To compare business to business, without the benefits of the real estate, right? That's kind of, that's what it's for to compare. It's almost like cap rate when it comes to real estate, to be able to compare one investment to another. So how, how I, I, usually I do separate analysis. I'll, I'll analyze the business by itself, without the real estate. But you, in order to do that, you have to have a fairly accurate appraisal of what you think the real estate is going to be worth to be able to pull out of that. And then, you know, run it just like if you were going to rent it from them, run those numbers and see is it still a good deal just the business by itself with a lease. And then run it with the real estate, and then it should be even be a better deal, hopefully. And then if it's a better deal, then you can move forward after that. But yeah, with with the real estate, I think you would have to do the EBITDA. That's That's what I would do. But you know, when you run your numbers like, I we just have, we just have an analyzer that's a spreadsheet that we throw it in and includes a real estate, you know, you amortize to 25 years, 25 to 30 years, and just see what the numbers come out as, and then go from there. And we could do that maybe, like, if you, if you want to pursue this more, after you talk to them, we can always, like, dig into the numbers, hardcore, throw it in the analyzers and see, see what, what it spits out. But there's, there's potential here, yeah, for sure. Thanks for looking at it for me. Up. Showed it, yeah, yeah, no problem.

Unknown Speaker  35:10
Okay, anybody else? What we got?

Speaker 7  35:20
Hey, Shane, have a question? I don't have anything to run, but I'm just looking through some of the videos. And are they organized by date at all? Are they just organized by topics?

Speaker 1  35:34
So the mentorship videos are organized by top by dates. So it's kind of a succession, and then towards the towards the end, I put a date, and then I put a breakdown of what we actually discussed, because otherwise it's kind of like a black box where you you don't know what the topics were. And then the, as far as the we can go, look at it, see, as far as the classroom goes, they, you know, it's, it's by topic, and then by date. So, you know, this is kind of the sequence that we did these videos. But then you can see what the topics were. That makes sense.

Speaker 7  36:18
So they're all gotcha, yeah, but there's no way to organize it that just like in chronological days. So if, like, you miss a class,

Unknown Speaker  36:27
oh no, no, not really Gotcha.

Speaker 7  36:30
Okay, that's what I was like, did I know if I was missing something? Okay? Yeah, no.

Speaker 1  36:35
Like, so when you go into, like, the last ones that I put in here were these two. This is the last two weeks. We just happen to do two business actually, three business topics in a row. We have to get back to credit, real estate and general investing again pretty soon. But, but yeah, so I wanted to put the the topic so you can pick and choose if you want to, but if you want to go chronological order, just straight down the line, yeah, all right, thanks.

Unknown Speaker  37:13
Hey, Shane, I got just two listings for you.

Unknown Speaker  37:18
Only two. Yeah, only two, believe it or not, okay.

Speaker 4  37:41
Off the bat, it's commercial, mainly, which, you know, I don't think either of us like commercial too much, mainly, just looking at it because the multiple is good. It appears real estate is included because it doesn't say it's not, yeah, only it says not included. I'm sure if I inquire, the numbers are probably going down. That's why the multiples what it is. But one painting company I inquired on kind of explained to me like the way bidding works is it's just like a website where it's all like numbers. It's not really relationship based. Do you know is that generally true for any industry that's like bid based,

Speaker 1  38:22
not, not in my experience. I mean, that might be the way it is for commercial in Florida, but, like, it's still very much relationship based in my area. Like, who knows who you know, who's this is somebody's brother in law, and they do a good job. Like, it's very much still word of mouth and handshake base around here. But, I mean, are you talking now, you know, government contracts is different. Were they referring to government contracts?

Unknown Speaker  38:54
County, city, state?

Unknown Speaker  38:56
Yeah, actually, they were. They were doing a few County,

Speaker 1  38:59
okay, that's a different situation. You know, every state has different regulations. You bid, you have to be bonded, you have to be approved, and then you have to put in your your official, you know, they'll put a scope of work out there. And you go in and say, Okay, here's, here's my official bid, and you got to sign a bunch of stuff saying that you're going to follow that bid, and it's a whole thing, yep.

Speaker 4  39:30
So probably I know on this one, since it's mainly commercial.

Speaker 1  39:34
Well, I mean, I don't know this is, this is something I don't know a ton about. I don't have any construction companies. I've actually been told by several people that that I don't want to get into general contracting, that it's difficult, and a lot of them are trending down and folding. So I don't have an explanation as to why, and I don't even know if that's i. Substantiated, but I've been told that by two people that I trust, so I don't know. I've been actively looking for one, until they told me that,

Unknown Speaker  40:13
Hey, Shane Brazil,

Speaker 7  40:15
well, just as maybe I can help provide a little bit of background on maybe why they're trending down a little bit having been in the industry. So this is for, I guess, for commercial. Commercial is very similar, like some of these other industries that are getting bought up by bigger companies. And so it's just, like, really hard for some of the smaller guys to continue to get these contracts, because of a lot of the smaller guys the owners want actually putting in the bids. And I will also say that with all the government regulations that are happening just because of transparency and FOIA and all that stuff, the compliance side of those contracts are often really expensive for smaller guys. So having and the bigger guys, and have someone on staff that they can, you know, manage the compliance side of things, and if you spend over a certain amount, who you talk to reporting all that, and then getting into like public sector stuff. So which it can be, if you have state contracts or things like that, sometimes you may have to register with certain agencies or Secretary of State or whatever, and report you know who you talk to, so that that could be why you've getting, gotten some of that information residential, not as bad as all, but a commercial that is typically some of the things that happens along with funding and credit that's happening everywhere, but, yeah, okay, There you go. Now, if you're, if you're sticking to just commercial and not worrying about, like, government, any government or public sector stuff, that's a little bit of a different story. But yeah,

Speaker 1  42:15
okay, it does say it's not a super competitive market, and they turn down a lot of work

Unknown Speaker  42:21
for whatever. Take that for what it's worth, but does say that?

Unknown Speaker  42:34
Yeah, warehouses, retail.

Speaker 4  42:38
What's that? Very interesting, not super interesting. I mean, my number one right now is probably that steel service center that I showed you last week.

Unknown Speaker  42:47
Have you? Did you pursue that further?

Speaker 4  42:50
Um, I've gone. I'm still looking over the sim. It's more than 100 pages. There's like, a lot of graphs, and then there's, like, an addendum about there was like a bigger steel company that got bought in the area last year for 70 million by some Canadian like iron mine company or something. So that kind of concerns me. But I mean, they've still gone up even after that purchase. So the way they kind of explained it is, obviously they get the bigger companies to work with the bigger steel company, but like the smaller guys who need faster turnaround and things like that go to that, like the giant company that's just gonna take forever to do your project, or

Speaker 1  43:49
this one's new, so, yeah, yeah. I mean, that's very new, and it's a subcontractor, so they've just found a way to insert themselves in between the big boys and the retail people, I would be nervous about this one only, only been around for three years, not actually doing anything other than facilitating deals, really.

Speaker 4  44:19
Yeah, the subcontractors were the one that like do the actual work.

Speaker 1  44:25
Well, is that what it's saying or saying that they're providing other subcontracts?

Unknown Speaker  44:32
Okay, okay, yeah, I was reading that wrong.

Speaker 1  44:36
I thought they meant that they were, they were locating GCS with subcontractors, but they're saying they are actually subcontracting. Yeah, okay.

Unknown Speaker  44:59
20. Plus experienced and talented staff members.

Unknown Speaker  45:12
See, they go other way to say that the the 2024

Speaker 1  45:16
tax return is available because they know the SBA is going to require that at least, right? So that's it's about the only one you're going to get as 20 as because, you know, they probably don't even have a full one. Well, they might start in 22 so you're going to get 23 and they're going to want at least two years of tax returns for the SBA,

Unknown Speaker  45:41
two full years, most of the time,

Unknown Speaker  45:54
one truck on A closed trailer, tools, dump carts, 3100

Unknown Speaker  45:59
square foot building.

Speaker 1  46:03
Hmm, I would be curious, because it's retirement, right? So why would somebody buy a business in 2022 if they plan on retiring in 25 you know, maybe something happened. Maybe they got, you know, life happens, right? So I would be curious, and want to want to know, like, basically that, like, Why buy a company or start a company in 2022 just to end it in 25 and just see if they have, if they have something personal going on, loss of a loved one, or their their health, that's that's different, but otherwise, it's kind of a red flag.

Speaker 4  46:47
Yeah, I'm not too much in a rush right now, I guess, um, I know you said a lot will come up during, like, March of next year, once they do, like, tax returns. So yeah, right now I'm really only considering there is one restaurant, just because I think it's like a lot of upside potential, and I wouldn't go above, you know, 2.3 on the multiple for it. But then the steel company is the other one I would really like to buy.

Speaker 1  47:23
I mean, I liked the steel one that we looked at that was last week, right?

Speaker 4  47:27
Yeah, yeah, there's two. So I'm still I haven't gotten the sim for the other one, but, um, yeah, I'm looking over the first one, and they're both around the same size too.

Speaker 1  47:42
And again, you know this, they gave you some numbers here, which is awesome. More than most do. I know what we're looking for

Unknown Speaker  47:58
is it 2 million,

Speaker 3  48:01
4 million, and they're saying, what's going to do six and 6 million? I mean, that's pretty good. That's that's really good growth, yeah.

Speaker 4  48:18
I mean, if I did try to do this still, I probably want, like, a year or a six month, like adjustment period with all the contracts to, yeah, see, yeah, last week gave me that idea, and I think that's great if I'm going to do something in like, an industry I'm not too familiar with.

Speaker 1  48:39
Was this for, you know, they give you a month with no cost, but that means you might be able to keep them on, you know, with a salary after that, if you needed to. Yeah.

Speaker 4  48:50
I mean, you could probably negotiate a two, three months for free, just adjust the most full a bit,

Speaker 1  48:57
couple days a week, something like that. Nothing else.

Unknown Speaker  49:04
Yeah. I mean, why not reach out for this one?

Speaker 4  49:07
Yeah, I will. But that kind of reminds me of something you were talking about earlier. Um, if you're going to do an SBA loan after June 1, you can't actually do direct equity, because they have to personally guarantee the loan, even if they have like 1% right?

Unknown Speaker  49:25
But I think

Speaker 4  49:27
that's kind of good, because if you need, like, a qualifying license, you can just do like a standard consulting agreement where they still qualify and you just pay them a set dollar amount. Or it can be like 1% of revenue, you know, 1.5% so I think that's better than actually giving away equity, because I don't really want to hand them equity.

Speaker 1  49:50
Yeah, I mean it just it forces you to structure a deal outside of the loan and the acquisition itself, you just have to come up with more of a i. Employee, employer relationship, or, like you said, a consultant relationship, a contractor. Yeah, but I don't, I don't like that. They've taken bullets out of our guns as far as like tools that we could use to creatively finance deals. Still a bummer.

Speaker 4  50:26
I mean, I don't know. Maybe it's just me personally. I don't want to give direct equity. I like them not having the ability to ask for direct equity. I would much rather have a consulting agreement for 1015, years then inequity that they can exit whenever they want. Yeah, the only thing I don't like is the standby note change where now you only need 5% instead before you could do 0% but,

Unknown Speaker  50:59
yep,

Unknown Speaker  51:02
government. Who needs them.

Speaker 4  51:09
And just an idea for Aaron, I mean, when you're negotiating that license with them, maybe do it as like a revenue percentage so it is appropriate to the business and doesn't outgrow the business, you know, just in case. Good point, yeah.

Speaker 1  51:30
Because if you think about it from his perspective, he's like, I'm going to sell this business. They're going to use my license, they're going to make a ton of money, and I'm not making anything, you know, that's that's a good idea. George. All right, thank you. Shane, all

Unknown Speaker  51:55
right, who's next?

Unknown Speaker  52:06
Shane had a quick question kind of related to the SBA

Speaker 2  52:10
I called about a business. It was a concrete polishing and it was like 450 K and I think it sounded like the brokers, it was going to be, like, 20% down or something. And I think I remember you saying over 350 it's usually 10% is a is it like, you know, it's never one specific

Unknown Speaker  52:36
percentage. It can fluctuate or

Speaker 1  52:38
well, those restrictions are from the banks, right? So the SBA says 10% right? That the SBA, you know, that's that's pretty much what they say across the board. But you you hit a brick wall with banks that say these are our guidelines before we're even going to present it to the SBA, we're saying that if it's under 350 we want 20% you know whether they're going to finance it personally, or they're going to, you know, try to push it through to the SBA. It's just like, you know, they might want a net worth of a certain amount. That's the bank doing that. That's, that's not necessarily the SBA. They're just, they have their guidelines. And if you hit some of those. Sometimes you just go find a different bank, and if you hit it again, then you find a different bank. You'll you'll eventually find one that's going to fit the criteria, not just for you, but also for the deal. But yeah, as like general financing with business acquisitions, 350 is kind of the sweet spot. Three to 350 because the banks consider anything less than 350 to be more risky, which seems crazy, but if, if the asking price is less than 350 I think they just feel like it's less stable. There's less employees, just, just less money in general, so they can sit, you know, like $100,000 asking price on a business is considered extremely risky for a bank because it's very small. You hardly have any employees. There's so much, you know, so much rests on small, vulnerable pieces that if one of those pieces is taken away, the whole thing can fall apart so they and it just seems like they've arbitrary, arbitrarily, set the line at 353, 50 to a million is the sweet spot to to get financed through traditional banks, through the SBA, and then not have to deal with private equity generally. That's like a good range, right there anything that's over a million asking price, you know, then you're, you're, you know, you're playing major league ball at that point, competing with private equity firms and corporations and hedge funds. Who knows these days?

Speaker 2  54:57
So when you talk to a broker like, let's say, an. Painting Business, I talk to a broker and do this. Does the broker have banks that they direct you to, or is that totally separate?

Speaker 1  55:09
Well, this is the seller's broker, right? So we're not talking about your broker. Yeah, yeah, they might. But just remember the this the seller's broker is not your ally, right? It's like, it's like the real estate agent for the seller. You know you need you. You have to either be your own advocate or have an advocate, because they're, they're trying to get the best deal for themselves and for the client. So, but that might help you when it comes to financing. You just never, you can always ask, but just be careful. If it make, if they think that you don't have the ability to get the financing, they're going to put you on the tire kicker list and and they might not present. You know, they're not under the same obligation that, like a real estate agent is if, if I see a house for sale, I call the agent and I offer a deal for $10,000 they have to, by law, they have to present that to the seller. You know, business brokers, they don't have that same obligation. They they pretty much do whatever they want to do. It's a whole different thing. So just just realize that, like you want to go in there, when you talk to that broker, like confident, knowing what you're talking about, checking all the boxes for them to make sure that you know you can close a deal you're serious and you have the money you know that they want to know those three things for sure. So if you were to ask them, we any recommendations on a bank, you know, it might, it just might look like, you know, you haven't thought it through or something, I would be, you know, making those banking connections now can't hurt, right? Just to reach out, just call around to, you know, SBA lenders in your area, and just say, Hey, this is, you know, can I talk to your SBA department? This is what I'm considering doing. Or, you know, you can reach out to the big banks like Huntington national, and, you know, they probably fund more SBA deals than any other bank in the US, I would assume they're huge, a huge SBA lender. You can talk to them. I mean, it can't hurt to talk to people and just see, see what possibilities. Just lay it all out. Here's what I got. Here's what I want to do. What do I need to do? Are you Is it possible to even get this kind of funding through your bank? Or should I look elsewhere. You know, you might get a couple doors shut in your face, but eventually you'll find the

Speaker 2  57:46
right one. Yeah, okay, yeah, because I called a few weeks ago that it was a concrete polishing one, and I think it was like, still on this by cell, and I think it was 450 and he said, how much you have to put down? And I said, like, around 50 to 60. And he was like, Oh, that's not enough. He's like, I could find you other businesses maybe, like one in the one to 200k range. So I was just surprised, because I thought that would be enough.

Speaker 1  58:18
Well, it is enough, unless they just are not accepting SBA, maybe they don't want to deal with it. Yeah, you know, it could be, I mean, you know, seller doesn't have to sell to anybody they don't want to. If it's too much of a headache, they can just say, Well, I'm keeping it. I'll find another buyer.

Speaker 4  58:40
Yeah, just kind of jump in really quick. Go ahead, Georgia, I was gonna say this might be the perfect opportunity for you to talk to a loan broker. If they are pre approved, then they bought 20% down. If you go to a loan broker, a loan broker is gonna go to 20 banks for you, save you the time of having to go through all the banks. They already have the relationships

Speaker 3  59:05
and SBA loan broker, yeah, SBA loan broker,

Speaker 4  59:12
and they might need 20% liquidity, but you only put 10% down. What I've seen a lot, and like smaller businesses, is a want 10% down, but they also want you to have 10% post close liquidity. So that might be why you need the 20%

Speaker 1  59:27
even, or certain amount of net worth. You see that a lot, yeah, you know. But I mean, the SBA itself is not going to ask you for those things. The SBA, you can even, you can put 10% down and even factor in working capital into the loan to have that liquid capital after, you know, post close, and the SBA is fine with it. It's, it's the banks that are doing that to us. Do you have a good SBA? A loan broker, George, did you find one? I know we talked about it a couple

Speaker 4  1:00:03
weeks ago. Yeah, I do you. I work with them. I talk to them pretty regularly. They're the ones that gave me, like, the pre qual letter, because I don't like sending all my bank statements to every you know broker, so I just send the pre qual letter and we're good on that.

Speaker 1  1:00:19
Okay, if, if you don't mind, would you ask them if they would be okay with sharing their their contact information in the community, because we have people ask about it all the time, and I haven't gotten an SBA loan in years.

Speaker 4  1:00:35
I could make a post with their website and everything. I mean, yeah, I wouldn't say no to more

Unknown Speaker  1:00:38
business. Okay, that'd be awesome.

Speaker 4  1:00:42
The only thing is, they only do deals from 400,000 to 5 million, so they won't like look at anything under that.

Speaker 6  1:00:51
Gotcha, I'm a part of a loan broker group, and I have their loan broker AI, I could look up a bunch of

Unknown Speaker  1:01:00
lenders for anybody,

Speaker 6  1:01:04
cool, whatever? Yeah, if anybody wants something, I can help out nice.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:10
Is it better do like a local?

Speaker 2  1:01:16
I guess there's some that do it national, like loan brokers that are agnostic to what state you're in,

Speaker 1  1:01:24
yeah, yeah. I would assume it just depends on where you can get licensed. Like, the loan broker that use for real estate, she's licensed in like seven states.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:34
So I guess it just depends

Speaker 4  1:01:38
for that you might want to like, I have two loan brokers. I have one that does national and then I have a smaller one that does like local banks. Because, like the big national one I use won't go to the small local banks, but the smaller loan broker will

Speaker 8  1:02:00
also Michael, apparently there is a SBA preferred lender list. And if you, if you get through them, apparently SBA takes them more seriously, and it will just speed up the process here. And like George said, if you have pre approval letter, it's going to be easier for you to talk to brokers, right? But then, like, asking them to put down like, 10% Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:02:27
yeah, the SBA preferred lenders, they are basically approving the loan in house. They're, they've got one, pretty much one foot in each, you know, in the SBA and in the local bank, like, it's not just, like a regular, a regular process where they fill out paperwork and send it out and hope that it gets approved. Like, if you're approved from an SBA preferred, you're basically approved. I mean, it's, it's, you can pretty much, you know, hang your hat on that approval. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:06
Getting some good stuff tonight. Nice, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:11
I like it. How's it compared to Cody Sanchez, Aaron, they

Unknown Speaker  1:03:19
don't let you talk as much.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:24
I bet not. Oh, man,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:31
okay, I'm gonna go ahead and stop this.
