Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're gonna start the mentorship portion of the evening. I'm gonna open it up to questions. It's Thursday, October 23 and just to lay some groundwork, this is kind of an odd time, because the government is shut down so you can't get an SBA loan right now. You can't even get one approved, or, you know, even the paperwork looked at, unless you go to a SBA approved like pre approved lender. SBA preferred, I should say, where they can approve things for you, because they work for the bank, but they have the qualifications to know if you meet the criteria or not. But even with a preferred lender like that, you you would still be waiting for the SBA to come back online before you could get your funding. But yeah, and then also it's it's fall, and it seems like more businesses are being listed. We're seeing a little bit of movement. So what you guys got,

Speaker 2  01:10
I'll start off. I'm going to put that link in the chat, all right, and I'll give you some context on the business, because this is just like the numbers, okay. Um, so this business been around 11 years, pretty well known. I've heard of it from, I mean, I live like an hour away, and I've heard of it from people that travel to that area for vacation. There's, I believe. Let me check 20 full time employees, 30 part time and seven managers, but it's only open five hours a day in the evening. It's a restaurant, so probably a bit it's a, like a steak and like seafood restaurant. They're near the beach, so a lot of the food is like fresh caught. Okay, um, I think they're over employed for sure. Um, for five hours a day. I don't even know how you could give that many employees and managers hours. Um, since 2022 it's been stable at these numbers of revenue has been around the 5 million mark. Lowest was this 476 last year, and it's very stable, fully absentee. So I did talk to the broker the story of what happened with it. They tried to sell it 11 months ago. Private Equity dragged them on, and they ended up not closing it. They kind of just ghosted them, and apparently they had like 100 grand in escrow that they just lost. And now the seller is looking to solid because he's listing it on the public side again, and they don't have the price, though, like they want you to kind of bid on it. I talked to the broker, because I've inquired with him a bit before on his other listings, and he told me the range is going to be, you know, 4.3 to 4.5 like, we're not going to really entertain low balls on this kind of business, you know.

Speaker 1  03:19
Okay, um, so that, that cash flow is that, I assume that's EBITDA, right? What is this? Or no, that's your actual cash flow. So you have your EBITDA right down at your SDE. Gotcha? So, I mean, it's, it's in the wheelhouse. I mean, it's not overpriced right now. So I um, I don't have you visited this place before. Is this a restaurant you are familiar with?

Speaker 2  03:49
Um, I haven't been there. I'm going tomorrow, and I'm I mean, the reviews are all good. Um, the food looks amazing. My main thing is just, I really don't want to get into a bidding war, because I might not win that, you know, I don't know who's going to come in, like, a big deal like this, you know, I'm competing against, like, maybe cash offers, right?

Speaker 1  04:13
Um, yeah, this is a big one. I mean, usually private equity is 5 million or more, but they'll dip down for a business like this, if they think it's a good one like they could still potentially be your adversary in this. Hmm, but it definitely looks good. I see you have 6% on the down payment. Is there a reason

Speaker 2  04:37
I discussed that I wouldn't have enough for the full 10% down. But I did talk to the broker I can comfortably do 6%

Unknown Speaker  04:49
and if they're willing to have, like, I

Speaker 2  04:53
forgot what the term is, like a stage note, like a, you know what I'm talking about, like where they hold the note. For the SBA to lower the because you can lower the down payments of 5% now with like a hell note by the buyer or the seller.

Speaker 1  05:09
So the length of the loan, though, the entire length of the loan,

Speaker 2  05:16
yeah, but it only be around, like 200 grand, and with how big the purchase is, I feel like 200 grand isn't

Unknown Speaker  05:25
something that break the deal. What do you think?

Unknown Speaker  05:32
Yeah, I mean it's, it's possible.

Speaker 1  05:37
I mean it's, it is it is if, if they want between 4.3 and 4.5 I mean, they've already kind of priced it down, but it's worth a shot, right? All you can do is shoot your shot, see what they say, and go from there. I mean, just the fact that you can bring the cash that you can says that you know you're you're someone who's serious. You're not, you're not a tire kicker, like you're legitimately a player in this business. So they've been burned by private equity before, so I think that's good, because they would all, all of these places would rather deal with an individual than they would with private equity. Is this the owner right now, did they start the business, or they

Speaker 2  06:23
buy they founded it and they had it like forever.

Speaker 1  06:28
Okay, yeah. So they would much rather see a regular person carry that business forward. Then, you know, somebody come in and turn it into some kind of homogenized chain kind of thing. So, yeah, I mean, I like, I like the numbers. I definitely like the numbers. This is a big one. This is a big business for your first one. I mean, you, you would be jumping into the deep end, my friend, yeah.

Speaker 2  06:57
I mean, honestly, even if I were to go with the smaller one, like, for a million, I'm kind of all in, right? Because if the million dollar one fails, you know, I'm still kind of screwed, you know,

Unknown Speaker  07:12
yeah, so, I mean, this my, this

Speaker 1  07:14
is a home run, too, if you're talking about putting in. This is what I love about business acquisition. It just looking at the screen, right? So you put in $267,000 and this, a lot of people do this. I assume it's a HELOC, right? Is that what you're thinking? Is that what's going Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:31
going on retirement with role, okay?

Speaker 2  07:34
So I could be able to heal, to cover the other 4% but that's like the last case. Like, I don't even want to mention that to them, because I don't want to do that. Yeah.

Speaker 1  07:44
I mean, why? Why not just just try you can all you get. You have to start the negotiation process somewhere, and maybe, though, maybe they'll work with you. It happens all the time. There are so many creative ways to make deals, even now, even though it's more restrictive, there's still ways to make deals, but, but I just what I want everyone to see is you put, if you put in 267,000 look at this SDE, the very first year, the very first year, it pays you back, and then You still have 1.2 million. And some change, the debt service is 650

Unknown Speaker  08:27
right there, 600 Yeah, 656,000

Unknown Speaker  08:29
so, so you, you put in $267,000

Speaker 1  08:33
and the very first year you're still still making $600,000 I just don't know of any other investments where that happens. I just don't, and that's what I love about this.

Speaker 2  08:48
So, yeah, my main two concerns are I kind of have, like, two processes in mind of how to go forward and kind of just hoping and telling me what you think about them. One is, um, I offer that range, you know, four point, like, your loi template has, like, a range, and I'd like to do it in an in person meeting, and kind of just hand them a folder at the end of, like, the first meeting, and be like, because, you know, the numbers are good, right? Like, the meeting is more of a formality, and I'll kind of hand them that folder. It'll be like, in the like, loi, it'll say this offer is valid for two weeks, because I don't want them to make me wait two months while they're collecting other offers, right? Yeah. Or I could kind of ask them at the end of the meeting, what's the number you'll take right now? We, you know, kind of settle this now, and I'm sure that number would probably be higher than the 4.5 maybe even up to five mm. So what do you think between the two? Kind of worried, even in the two weeks, someone could come in, because this was listed just yesterday. Okay, I don't even have like the full sim yet.

Unknown Speaker  10:13
Yeah. I mean, I

Speaker 1  10:18
if you like it and you like the numbers, and they obviously work at this range. There's nothing wrong. I mean, the broker himself told you 4.3 to 4.5 right? So you're he knows what it's worth. He's had the discussions with the owner. He would not have put that number out there unless he thought that was a feasible number. The multiple is right. I would just, if you're, if you're wondering if you want to be aggressive on it, just give them the loi, you know, and just say, hey, I want to move forward this blah, blah, blah. And you don't even necessarily have, they're going to probably want proof of income. They won't want to, kind of want proof of funds, proof of funding.

Speaker 2  11:03
I've submitted that to the broker with things I've talked to him about,

Speaker 1  11:07
okay, yeah, so I would do that because it's official. Even though it's an LO just an LOI, and it's not binding, it's still a document that you sign. They sign. You've laid out some preliminary terms in there, and you can go from there. That's what I would do. That's what that's my preferred way forward on all these deals. Everybody says, you know, the person that gives the first number is, you know, speaks first is the one that loses. That's like the whole art of the deal stuff. I think that's a bunch of crap. Set the terms yourself. You know, what makes a good deal and what what doesn't make a good deal. So that's probably how I would go, is I would just go there with a loaded loi talk. You know, don't just whip it out on them immediately. You know, you want to talk to the because you're going to get to the owner, right? Or just the broker

Speaker 2  12:03
of the owners the it'll probably be a meeting with like him and his wife, okay? So because, you know, we're a family, and I feel like there's better connection when you know,

Speaker 1  12:14
yeah, yeah. And just ask questions. You know, started off by asking questions about the business. How you started it? What were the struggles? What you know, how'd you go? How'd you get through covid? How did you do this? How you know that kind of stuff? And there'll be time. There'll be a time where you'll know it's the it's time to talk business towards the end, and that's when you know, you've got your your folder, you got whatever, and you can present it to them say, you know, I'm interested in moving forward. I'm serious about it, and I'd like to present you with this and go from there.

Speaker 2  12:53
Typically, when I because I kind of just envision, like, I would hand them the folder and be like, here's a LOI. You know, I hear back from you, that's great, but like, do I need to, like, break down the LOI to them at the end?

Speaker 1  13:07
Or, like, I'm sure they're gonna ask questions, probably not if they ask you questions about it, but what they're gonna do, as soon as you leave, they're gonna sit down with the broker, and the broker is gonna explain it all to them, because if they started this business, they probably don't have never, don't have never bought a one, bought a business or sold one, they just started from scratch, I assume, so they're not going to understand what it says, so just go from there. Yeah, if they ask you questions and they want to talk more, why not? But if not,

Speaker 2  13:38
two week expiration, that's like a good timeline, or,

Speaker 1  13:45
yeah, I usually don't put expiration on there, but I see why you would do that.

Speaker 2  13:53
I'd only do it with this one just because they're trying to set up a bidding war, like they don't have a price listed. They want offers, and I don't want to wait two months and another offer comes in for 50,000 more and, like, I don't want to do that, you know?

Speaker 1  14:09
Yeah, no. I mean, I think it's, I think it's fair,

Unknown Speaker  14:14
if they don't know in two weeks, they're never gonna know.

Speaker 1  14:19
Yeah, and how badly did I want to sell it? They already tried once. They already went down the path with someone who, you know, didn't follow through. So they don't want to go through that again. So I think, you know, that's probably going to be their main concern with you is, you know, can you bring the down payment and all that stuff, like they're going to be concerned that you can't follow through because maybe a lack of funds, but if you can overcome that, yeah, and

Speaker 2  14:51
I think you're very close, you're right there the funds, I can easily prove. I mean, that's just bank statement, you know.

Speaker 1  14:58
Well, no, I just mean that, you know. Know, if you're trying to get a deal for 6% down payment, you know that that part of it, a traditional owner that hasn't been involved in these deals, they just see that as a red flag that you don't have enough money to buy the business. Sophisticated sellers and brokers understand better. And if it's a good broker, they'll explain that to them.

Speaker 2  15:25
One thing I think will help me in that aspect is the broker did mention to me they discussed seller financing. They're okay with like 500,000 seller financed. So I'm thinking, instead of 500,000 seller financed, which normally isn't held, then we can just do half of that that is held on standby, and that's kind of a middle ground, yeah.

Speaker 1  15:49
Okay, so yeah, I think I think you're good. If they're okay with with 500,000 seller finance, I think you're good. Yeah, totally Yeah.

Speaker 2  16:00
Next question would be, have you ever worked with an SBA loan broker?

Speaker 1  16:07
No, not with a broker. I've worked, you know, work, obviously, with the lender themselves, but not, not a broker. I actually got that I don't know if you saw a post about the usefulness of one of those loan brokers, but they can, can so they can connect you with a bank that has favorable terms for the kind of SBA loans you want to get. So a lot of So banks have their vetting process right? And you go through their vetting process first, and then they submit it to the SBA. If you don't get through their process, which might be more rigorous than the SBA, they won't even even put it forward. So that's what you're you're overcoming that kind of hurdle. So, but no, I haven't personally worked with with an SBA loan broker.

Speaker 2  16:58
Got you I have a meeting with one set up tomorrow. I think my goal, mainly with them, is rate shopping. The interest on this loan is around 250,000 like, just interest beyond principle. So if I can get better interest rate, that's a pretty big hit on my cash flow. And since they're able to rate shop, and maybe they can, like, you know, pre qualify me. Like, only the business can get pre approved, but a buyer can get pre qualified, right?

Speaker 1  17:29
Like, yeah, it really doesn't mean much. I mean, they will still vet you anyway it so it's just like, so when a business is pre approved, that's like a just a bot, like an advertisement in the listing, you know, pre approved for, you know, SBA, pre approved. It's the same thing that when, when you go to, like, meet with them, you can say, I'm pre approved for this loan, and it just shows that, you know, you've already tried to get funding their bank or the SBA has already said that they can, but everything still starts from scratch. When you get serious and you have a purchase agreement.

Speaker 2  18:12
But yeah, I was just thinking that might help with, like, a negotiating point, because they're all like, this business is also pre approved. So maybe if they stay in pre qualified business, is pre approved, they'll think it'll close fast, and maybe they'll be willing to do that two week. Yep, I just really don't want to let this one go. Like, I the last one I mentioned to you that got snatched up before they even had the full financials. Like, that really burned me. Like, I know that would have been a really good deal, and I just don't let that happen again.

Speaker 1  18:45
Yeah, I get it. Just don't let FOMO push you to stretch yourself too thin. Okay, just remember that. You know it's there's a lot of risk involved here, so don't, don't, let excitement and all that stuff, you know, overshadow but I don't think you have because you're deeply into the numbers. The numbers look good. You have a plan.

Unknown Speaker  19:14
It's a solid business. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  19:18
awesome. Yeah.

Speaker 1  19:22
And as far as like loan brokers go, guys like, all the real estate that I buy these days, I use a loan broker for all of it. I get such better rates from a loan broker than going to, you know, my local bank or whatever. When it comes to real estate, it really makes a huge difference. If you're looking for the lowest rate around they can find that, because they get exclusive deals, they get a tiny piece or some kind of a commission for it, and yeah, it's, it's, it saves you a lot of money, and they're good at what they do, because they do a ton of loans. So do.

Speaker 2  20:00
Hey, Shane, I've got a quick question, okay, relating to that, like, if you're Are you gonna go ahead? Go ahead, George, I was gonna say really quick about the loan broker, at least with SBA, from what I've seen so far on, like, the one I have a meeting with, you don't actually have to pay them any commission. They're paid by the bank.

Speaker 1  20:20
End, right? Yeah, yeah. I don't mean that you you pay them, somebody's paying them, or giving, you know, giving them a piece of the the back end or whatever, but that's yeah, it saves you money. In the long run. It probably costs the lender a little bit more, but they're willing to do that because, you know, if this loan broker can get them 10 loans this year, it makes them more money. So, yeah, yeah, and they have they don't have to do any work, because the loan broker does all the work. They do all the financial statements, they get all your information. They do the credit checks like they do all that stuff. Yep, go

Unknown Speaker  21:02
ahead, Aaron, yeah, my question was,

Speaker 2  21:06
is there a time that you'd want to refine it, like, I already have, you know that SBA loan? Is there a good time to, like, refinance or, like, maybe, you know, let's say I didn't get the best rate, and I'm looking for some, you know another lender can? Does one do that? Kind of like if you're refinancing your home, can you refinance your loan for your business?

Speaker 1  21:29
You can? I, I don't know of anyone that's ever refinanced an SBA loan with another SBA loan. I don't believe I'm not. I want to say that you can't do that. I'm not 100% but I have never met anyone who has and I haven't done it. Now you could, you can 100% refinance through a traditional bank and pay that off and get a better loan, better rate that way, but you're going to have to maybe put some more money into it to get that, you know, up above and beyond what your you know loan stuff is like, as far as your refinancing fees and setting up the you know, like, if it's real estate, you set up escrow. You got all these different fees that that they charge you. But with an SBA loan, you wouldn't have that. But if you put, did you put 10% down? Is that

Unknown Speaker  22:26
what you did? The business already had

Speaker 2  22:30
assets, okay? So I didn't have to put anything down. Okay?

Speaker 1  22:36
So you might, you might still be able to work something out then, but I think it's going to have to be with a regular bank

Unknown Speaker  22:45
and not the SBA,

Speaker 1  22:48
okay, thanks. But like I said that that's actually a topic that I'm going to research now, because I've never that's never come up before. It's a good question.

Speaker 3  23:02
Okay? Related to George listing yet. I'm looking at it, and the biz hub says that industry average multiple, it's 1.8 but they listed two point almost three, right? And since George is planning to use SBA, usually they well known, right for, like, they have very strict process. And what if, let's say, the multiple, it's lower, like, average doesn't mean that the seller has to bring the price down. I mean, of course, if he is willing to do that, yeah,

Speaker 1  23:37
well, I mean, they look at that, but the DSCR is what's the most important. But with the financials, like, if there's, if there's an obvious like double or triple, what it should be, you know, that might cause you problems. But because of the you know this, DSCR is 2.29 that's, I don't think they're going to balk at that. And I don't know where this number is coming from, too on this calculator. I'm not sure. Did you look into that?

Speaker 2  24:11
George, I think that number is a bit off. If you click Analyze deal, I'll like paste it in the chat, because you have to log in to do it, but it kind of has like a more realistic range of the multiple. But even then, if you go off the AI summary, multiple of 2.4 that's what I normally see when I'm looking at smaller businesses, like in the mid six figure range. But like Shane said, you know, the bigger you get, the higher the multiple is, and this one is also fully absentee. So that's probably why the multiple is going to be a bit higher.

Speaker 1  24:48
Yeah, they might just have, this is a maybe a blanket multiple for all restaurants, but because this is a big one, that might be what it is, but that does seem like a very low multiple.

Speaker 3  24:58
I. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, good luck, Georgia. Hope everything goes smoothly.

Unknown Speaker  25:06
When's your meeting? Thank you.

Speaker 2  25:09
Um, my meeting with the owner. Um, yeah, well, that's actually another issue. So in the sim, apparently there's an hour long seller interview that he doesn't want to do many meetings. So I'm gonna go eat the food tomorrow, and probably on Saturday, I'll call the broker and tell him, like, either I'm ready to set the offer up, and I'd like to do that in person, and then he'll ask the seller, and that's how we do that, and I'm assuming that's then he'll be willing to meet, you know, when it's, you know, serious. Okay, super cool.

Speaker 1  25:58
I like this calculator, too. It's nice,

Speaker 2  26:03
yeah, really helpful. I mean, I do normally most of these calculations, like, ballpark in my head, but being able to, like, visualize it there, is really great. Yeah.

Speaker 1  26:20
Okay, anybody else have a question? Or do Evelyn, I know you mentioned something earlier, right about your the batting cages?

Unknown Speaker  26:31
Yes, yes, moving over to a quieter place.

Speaker 4  26:35
Okay, okay, so for the batting pages, I think the first one that I told you just may not be a good deal for us. They're asking for too much, and they really don't have much profit. So we found a second one, and we met with them last night. We had dinner. So we met with both of the owners, and they seem to like our offer the best. But the problem is, or maybe not, the problem they are doing everything themselves now, so they don't have a broker. The wives are the ones that handle everything. So it's, it's very, very small business. I have to ask for all of the documents, and she goes back and asks her accountant how to get all the information. So we're just playing like a little bit of tag in terms of getting all the information, but I think we have a good shot. The only problem is I want to make sure that I can get everything for the business under our current business name. Um, because, yeah, their their brand is in our brand. So we're trying to tread very lightly, because we know that this is like, one of, like, one of the things that I know they may not particularly like if we switch things too quickly.

Speaker 1  28:10
Well, I mean, you'll, you know, if you buy this business, you'll have it in your purchase agreement, that you'll own that their name, whatever it is, and you can choose to use it or not. It doesn't matter. Very, very few owners are going to put, they're going to demand in the purchase agreement that you keep the name the same. They came in,

Speaker 4  28:31
plus did it like five times yesterday. So I was like, Okay, this seems to be Yeah, well, yeah. It's like, either you want to sell it or you don't. But I heard it way too much. So I was like, Oh, this is this keeps coming up. It wasn't like, anyway, I think we can make it work. But what about like the documents? Since we don't have a broker, I'm like, How can I make sure that they don't use this name again, or that we have all the IP, all the assets? Like, I almost just want to hire our lawyer just to get everything in writing, because this feels a little too close to just being, you know, like a handshake deal, which is great for us, but I need a little bit more well.

Speaker 1  29:15
You can make a handshake deal on the numbers, but when it comes to, comes to crunch time, I all you want to use a lawyer, you want to use an attorney that is experienced, and you just have to bite the bullet. And so I here's what I always do. I do all the work myself. I get it as far as I can, and then I will hire an attorney, and I'll hire an accountant. I want another set of eyes that are, you know, well trained, and know what's going on to look at this stuff. And because we're, you know, you can miss things. I've had, I've had an attorney, like on the last deal he he, he noticed something. He said, hey, you know, in, and this was just in the lease agreement, he said, In this lease agreement. It in three years. There's no, there's no specific language as to how much they can charge you for the lease. So if they wanted to, they could double it on you and tank your business. So if they get mad at you, they can, they can do this. And there's nothing you can do because it's very vague in how they said they were going to price it. So we came back with, we want this language in there. You're going to we'll get these numbers, and we'll pay 80% of this for class, whatever, like that could have been a disaster in a couple of years. And I was so focused on the purchase agreement that I didn't, you know, and there was a three years left in this lease with a five year renewal, like, blah, blah. So you you definitely want that to happen, you're gonna pay quite a bit for them to look at this stuff, but it's worth it, because you're talking about your future and your well being, and it's just like, it's like an insurance policy.

Speaker 4  30:54
Should I bring them on as part of the due diligence? Or should I wait? I should bring them on for this, yeah, wait.

Speaker 1  31:01
We'll wait. Wait first, until you gather all the information. If you can, like you can do the I do the LOI on my own, you know, loi is easy. It's binding. It's not a big deal. It just says, Hey, I'm serious. Don't shop it around, you know? And then you it kind of puts into specific terms, what you require. All you know, I need access to this, to this, to this, to this, and then they get you all that. And then you can look it over yourself and decide whether or not everything looks like the way you think it should look. And if it does, then you can hire those professionals. You don't want to hire them now and not need them, and just spend a lot of time on the phone with them, paying them $300 an hour to talk to you on

Speaker 4  31:44
the phone. Okay, so get it as far as I possibly can, pretty much until it's time for us to get the agreements and sign over.

Speaker 1  31:53
Yeah. Okay, and are you going to get a loan for this?

Speaker 4  31:58
No, we actually will be paying cash. So, yeah, it'll be a little bit easier for us. That is also why I'm like, Okay, well, I need to see everything. They mentioned, a few like Zell payments. And one of the big red flags for me was, hey, I always like to ask up front, are there any cash transactions that we're not aware of? And usually they're like, oh no. And then they say Zelle, and I'm like, Okay, so that's a yes, so we know that it's going to be hidden somewhere. It's just I need to find out where, because majority of the times they don't, they don't really track that.

Speaker 1  32:42
Okay, so what numbers are they claiming? What? What did they give you? As far as you know, the the

Speaker 4  32:50
business is not a red. The business is definitely in red. But the only reason why it's in red, it's because they're closed majority of the week. They only work like they're only open five hours, four days a week. Why? Because of priorities. So they just had a baby. That's the reason why the two sellers are pretty much not getting along. And one has a baby, and the other one has a kid in high school, and they're traveling for baseball. So to us, is a good deal, because really, we're getting, we're getting the business as the cost of the equipment, okay, so it would cost us twice as much. Okay? It's like a divorce

Unknown Speaker  33:39
situation, yes? And we're

Speaker 4  33:41
like, okay, we're happy in this case, right? This is a good deal for us. It would definitely cost us way more.

Speaker 1  33:46
Okay, normally I would say, don't buy right?

Speaker 4  33:51
I know. I know, I know.

Speaker 1  33:54
So just be very careful that, because there could be, when you get the financials you're going to see, because they haven't always been always been, you know, in the red obviously, or they would have gone out of business or something.

Speaker 4  34:07
They've been in business for three years. The numbers are not good. But the first year they only the first year, they were negative, they were like negative 4000 the second year, they only profited, like 8000 and so I asked them, well, what's going on? What happened? And they're like, well, we can't do more hours. And I was like, this is interesting. So you guys haven't been able to do more hours in like, three years. And we just, we found out the two partners, they pretty much stop getting along. So nobody wants to be with the other one, so they avoid each other at all costs. And that has hit the business, because they're always

Speaker 1  34:49
closed, so they you physically have to have someone there. It's not coin operated. That just lets people in.

Speaker 4  34:55
My husband, he's a baseball coach, so this is, this is purely like. Like, this is our expertise, so he'll be able to run it and hire the people that we need to hire. I have a separate business that does marketing and operations and all the backend stuff. So for us, it makes sense. I know what I need to do. From my side, I know how to get some partnership deals. There's a lot of sponsors. I like working with youth baseball, so it makes sense for us, like we know what to do to get it to where the numbers would be nice. But I'm worried about it feels a little too easy for me, and I think that was, that's what's worrying me right now, right like this feels like, besides them being in red, it feels like they just want to get it done and go,

Speaker 1  35:51
Well, does it come with real estate? Are you just gonna move the equipment somewhere else?

Speaker 4  35:56
No, it comes with the lease and the equipment and everything in it.

Unknown Speaker  36:00
So what's the kind of lease

Unknown Speaker  36:03
they have? A What is it? A three net,

Speaker 1  36:06
yeah, for like, how long is the term?

Speaker 4  36:11
So that's a good one. Their lease is expiring next month. We connected with the owner, and they said, not the owner, the person that owns the space. What do you call them? The landlord, the landlord? We connected with them, and they said that they would give us the first three months for free, because they want a tenant to stay there with them, so they know that it's either these people leave and they don't get a new tenant for the next three months, four months, however, long. So they're like, you guys can get settled in, and then after three months, you can start paying us the rent. We're like, this is great. It's saving us about, what, 6100, a month. So that's why I'm I'm nervous. I'm like, This feels like too light.

Speaker 1  37:01
Well, I mean this, this has a lot of red flags. Yes, yeah, there's all these things are generally, everyone that you've mentioned is generally a reason for me to walk from a deal never been profitable. Lease expiring, even though the landlord might be cool and everything, like, once you sign papers like, like, so I won't, I won't buy a business unless they renewed their lease. They have a lease that is multi year in place, and someone that's preparing to sell their business will wait until they right after they renew, and they have a fresh three to five year term, because they know that. So there's a lot of you know this business, even if you wanted to get a loan for it, you wouldn't be able to, right?

Speaker 4  37:49
No, and I told my husband that. I said, this is a failing business, like there's no doubt about it, this is a failing business. There's a lot of work that has to happen right away, but knowing their back end and that they don't have everything is manual. So, like, the booking system is manual, the renewals of memberships are manual. There's just, like, little things that could definitely bring in cash flow, but they just haven't. They haven't changed anything in three years, and none of that has worked. So there's certainly things that could work immediately that they just haven't done.

Speaker 1  38:31
Okay, yeah, I just, you know, I just wanted to throw that out there, just in case.

Unknown Speaker  38:38
No, I definitely know this one is this.

Speaker 4  38:42
One's a tricky one because it's, it's not profitable, by all means, but there's certainly a lot of opportunity, and it's at the cost of what we would pay for equipment, not even the full cost. This is like half of the cost of what we would pay for all the equipment in a new business.

Speaker 1  39:01
Okay, yeah, I mean, and there's a lot of room for improvement there, obviously, but like, as far as just generating additional revenue with with your husband as a baseball coach, he could be a Swing Coach there and do private lessons, and you automate things you know you have the potential for memberships that you know, is it indoors or outdoors?

Speaker 4  39:23
It's indoors. They're indoors buying cage and my husband has already ran like, camps, clinics. Like, the brand that we have is actually phenomenal. We have three baseball teams like we have the support, and we can grow it. We just need the indoor space. And this seems to kind of check all the boxes, okay, but yes, I will take your advice on hiring the lawyers towards the end, and then for the accountant. Do you think I should bring them on towards the end, or something?

Unknown Speaker  40:00
And go over yourself.

Speaker 1  40:03
It's just just what you're doing is you're just verifying what they've told you is true, and you're looking for any, just anything that that you don't know about yet, because you will uncover things like how they spent their money, how much they paid for their equipment, like you'll, you'll start seeing all of that stuff, what they truly bring in, what they've wasted, what you know,

Speaker 4  40:27
could I ask for their QuickBooks, access and like their banking or is that like

Speaker 1  40:34
you that without a purchase agreement? I mean, they might, because they're just regular people. Might not know any better, but a business owner and a broker will not give you that access. They'll give you what reports that you want from there, but not direct access.

Speaker 4  40:51
Yeah, they they've given me a lot, they go back to the accountant, and they get me pretty much everything that I've asked for. But it's just like nothing has been handed without, without asking, which is fair enough, right? They don't know any better.

Speaker 1  41:07
But yeah, so you, you have the the PNLs for three years, the tax returns for three years, and the year to date, okay, yeah, there you go. Yeah. I mean, nothing comes without risk. And this one is very risky. So if you're comfortable with that risk and you think you can make it worth work, then hey, there you go.

Speaker 4  41:31
Okay, anything else that I should keep top of mind when it comes to, I guess, this cash, this cash business, because I want to be again, just super careful. I'll involve the lawyers towards the end and the accountant. But yeah, two owners, so I don't know how that

Unknown Speaker  41:54
Yeah. I mean,

Speaker 1  41:57
are they already in the divorce process, or are they gonna wait?

Speaker 4  42:03
No, sorry, they are two different married couples, so not to each other. Okay, so four owners in total. Gotcha.

Speaker 1  42:20
No, that does, I mean, so as long as everybody's on board, you know, the spouses will have to be on board too. With selling is all are all four on board?

Speaker 4  42:28
Yes, all four. All right, they definitely made that clear last night,

Speaker 1  42:33
and I would not buy this business without a lease agreement ready to go with the current landlord. Like, already, like, because, you know, you buy this, and then you find out he wants, you know, going to give you a three month abatement, but he wants $1,000 more per month, 2000 more per month. Something crazy.

Speaker 4  42:55
So he, he gave us some new numbers for the agreement. So there's a second space I would work for some of the camps and the clinics that we could offer, and he said he would give it to us at a better rate, so it's only, like an additional $500 and it would be plus the space they currently have. Okay? So they did give us an I mean, so far it's been in, I think, good faith. But to your point, is better for them to sign, but I don't think they would want to sign a new agreement. It's due 11 one. So they really, if I need them to sign, I would need to push for them to get it done within the next two weeks.

Unknown Speaker  43:43
Yeah. And then the permits too, right?

Unknown Speaker  43:47
Yeah. Well, what do you mean the permits

Speaker 4  43:50
for the building inspections you think I should do?

Speaker 1  43:58
Well, I don't know what kind of, you know, regulations you have in your area, as far as that kind of business that's, you know, that's a recreational business. I don't have any experience in that, but you know, you're going to want every you know that can come later. You're going to spend a lot of time going through the financials and vetting that business and doing your due diligence, like, don't you're not going to rush into it. So I would assume that their lease, if their landlord, is okay with, you know, them switching to month to month until you get this deal done. Yeah, you know, if that's the case, then okay. But the day that you sign the purchase agreement, I would, I would you sign the lease so the landlord already has the lease, and you know, like, Okay, I'm buying this business. Here it is, and here's your money, here's the lease I'm signing. Like, all that needs to happen the same day. You don't want to get committed to this business, and then then try to sign the lease a week later and get screwed. I. But because you can't, you know, trust no one. People are very nice when you first meet them, but when lots of money is on the line, people change.

Speaker 4  45:09
Okay, so get the leasing agreement and purchase agreement at the same time.

Speaker 1  45:15
Yeah, yeah. Never, you never want to do one without the other.

Speaker 4  45:20
Okay? And then, what if they renew for 11 one? So should I make sure that they are sending that in an email? Should I put that somewhere that it's either,

Speaker 1  45:33
yeah, like a long term, right?

Speaker 4  45:36
Because their lease is done 1031, so they would need to start a new 111,

Speaker 1  45:42
one, okay, well, you would want to know, you know, if it's transferable, and you want it in writing from the landlord that it's transferable to you,

Unknown Speaker  45:51
okay, if they do renew,

Speaker 1  45:55
okay, that is, and then also, and when you, when you look at that lease, because you're going to want to see that lease, you want to see what the renewal terms are after three years, or whatever that lease term is. So again, like I, like I talked about earlier, so they can't just double the rent on you.

Speaker 4  46:11
And yeah, they gave us that one in case we wanted to change anything. We did get that the what the lease would look like with both scenarios. Survey said if we wanted to keep it as is, the rent would be $500 less, and if we,

Unknown Speaker  46:31
if we added that space, it would be $500 more.

Speaker 4  46:35
And they showed us what the lease would be like for the next three years.

Unknown Speaker  46:42
Okay, anything else I should keep in mind?

Speaker 1  46:50
No, I mean, if you want to, since you you'd have to sign an NDA or something you want to bring the financials next week, we can look at them, okay? We can kind of dig into that. That's something we can do that will be helpful for everyone. I think, okay, just if you can, if you want to print them out, and then, like, put black marks over social security numbers, things like that, you know, sensitive information. And then we can, we can look at it after that.

Speaker 4  47:17
Okay, sounds good. I have it ready. Cool. Awesome. Thank you so much. No problem

Speaker 1  47:28
does anyone else have? Did you find anything? Got a question,

Speaker 2  47:37
another random question. I was looking into that CTA, you recommended me that. I think you use them too, right? Um, Randy,

Speaker 1  47:44
yeah, I used them on the last one. He was good. I was

Speaker 2  47:48
just wondering, how do you even find him? Like, when I looked him up, I only see him, like, on the Chamber of Commerce, and he doesn't have, like, a website or anything, just like a number.

Unknown Speaker  47:58
Yeah, he's old school. He was recommended by a friend

Speaker 1  48:03
like because he's local, he's he's in the same city that I'm in. So I was looking for someone, I wanted someone local, and

Unknown Speaker  48:13
trying to remember who recommended him to me. I don't remember.

Speaker 1  48:19
I don't I can't even tell you who it was now, but it was some somebody, another business owner, recommended him. Okay?

Speaker 2  48:27
And he was able to, like, do all the due diligence, you know,

Speaker 1  48:31
on that stuff. He just, he just looks over the financials. So what they're going to do is they're going to look over the financials. They're going to compare them to the tax returns, for you, things like that. They're going to come up with a pro forma and then present that pro forma to you, they're going to say, Okay, here's what it you know, this is what it's done the last few years. This is kind of our prediction of what it will do in year one. They'll adjust the numbers for inflation and for just in general, I don't know the way things are going. And they'll he'll ask you questions like, okay, what are you planning? Are you planning on doing more advertising? What would your budget be for this, you know, things like that. He'll iron it out and get you a pro forma that you can then take to a lender if you, if you haven't got secured funding already, and they love that. When a CPA does a pro forma for you using historical numbers, they love that. But, yeah, he's been involved in some pretty big deals. He's he, he knows his stuff

Speaker 2  49:37
is a CPA that does is like, is he the one that would go and verify like, compare their bank statements to profit loss statements. Or is that something that you do?

Speaker 1  49:48
No, I mean, you have to do that legwork yourself. You can hire them to come in that's more of a forensic accountant they would have to come in, and you would pay them a lot of money to do that. So you have to compile this stuff for them. They will generally ask you for certain documents. They'll say, I need this. I need this. I need this. You give them that, and then they'll usually come back and say, Okay, can I need the cash flow statement, and I need the balance sheet. And you know, they'll ask for more information to verify things, but you have to procure those yourself. Oh, yeah.

Speaker 2  50:23
Do you think I'm sure they'll cost more, but just because it's my first one, and it's pretty big, maybe I should kind of spill out for the forensic accountant.

Speaker 1  50:34
I mean, I don't know that you necessarily need a forensic accountant. I just you're just going to need an accountant that specializes in that. But this, you know, maybe they'll give you access to or give a CPA access to QuickBooks, because that's, that's commonplace. You know, they're, you know, they're, they're like, they're not an individual that they're worried about stealing, you know, credit card numbers and stuff like that. They're a tax professional, just like an attorney as a professional, and they know that their license is on the line. So they might give them. I've never done that, you know, because I always have the information myself. I've already gotten that stuff. I've already checked it out, so I just kind of give them everything, and they go from there.

Speaker 2  51:23
But so why does due diligence, like, take so long? I feel like I could probably do that within a week, like,

Speaker 1  51:33
well, because you need to spend time you know, you're looking at every single thing, right? And part of the due diligence is, you're like, your attorney is going to look to see if there's any lawsuits. They're going to look to see if the people actually own the business outright, there's no liens, there's no debt on the business that they're not, you know they're they're not sharing with you. That's also what the CPA will do, they'll look through the numbers and say, Okay, this is unaccounted for. Anywhere this has to there's debt here, or there's there's something missing, or where is this money going? Like an accountant can figure that stuff out for you, and they know where to look. But it, I know it might seem like it's not a big deal, but it's a lot. There's a you're looking at a lot of numbers. You're looking at bank statements. You're looking at all the credit card statements to see if you can see you're looking for anomalies, like, what is this? Where did this money go, you know? Or, how did you, how did, where did you get the money to pay for this? It's a lot, and a business this big, it's going to take some substantial effort. A $200,000 business takes a lot of effort. So this one is going to be, it's going to be a lot, but they obviously probably have an accountant and a bookkeeping team and like, they're not doing that themselves. They have great point of sale system. You're going to have access to a lot of numbers, but it's going to be a lot.

Unknown Speaker  53:14
Yeah, I guess I'll see Yeah.

Speaker 1  53:17
I mean, don't sleep on due diligence. It it it seems. Oh, yeah, I'm just checking this number matches this number. Yep, it matches. We're good. Like, there's, there's a lot to it. Like you're, you become a detective, and you're looking for anything. You're looking for something that can kill you in the future, you know, some hidden thing that can kill your deal or your livelihood. So it's serious.

Speaker 2  53:45
I got you, I just feel like I wouldn't really know where to look like, what am I looking for?

Unknown Speaker  53:50
Like? Is that what the accountants for?

Speaker 1  53:54
Is he gonna like? Tell me, yeah, yeah, that's a big part of it. And you know, you can, they can walk you through the due diligence process too, like, I don't, I've been doing it long enough I don't need walk through it, you know? So I kind of know what to look for and the types of businesses that I buy. But they can also give you strategies on how to do that,

Unknown Speaker  54:16
you know? They're, that's what they do.

Speaker 1  54:19
So they can actually point you in the right direction. You can drop everything off of them, all the reports, everything, and they, you know, they'll point you in the right direction from there. It's just, you know, they charge like, 150 an hour, 200 an hour. So just, just know that going in, it's going to be pretty pricey.

Unknown Speaker  54:38
Okay, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  54:53
There you go.

Unknown Speaker  55:00
You're a real one elder, I'll just

Unknown Speaker  55:08
sing thank you to elder.

Unknown Speaker  55:11
Yeah, that link in the chat,

Speaker 1  55:12
yeah, there you go. You can also drop your financial statements into chat GPT, and it can, it can look for things chat. GPT is really good at recognizing missing numbers and things that don't match when they should match. Like, especially in like programming, when you look for anomalies and storage layouts that don't match things like, it's very, very good at that. So that can help too. Oh, how long will due diligence take? That question? So it depends on the business. But like you usually, put in at least two months, if not 90 days of Oh, for the accountant of due diligence in general, but the accountant to go through everything and to, you know, present you with a pro forma about two weeks. They're not going to be working on that the whole time. They have other, you know, other people that they're dealing with and stuff. But like, that's generally how long it takes for them to go through everything, and they probably have an assistant do a lot of it. I don't know how much of it they do, personally, just kind of like an attorney with a paralegal, same thing, but, but so it cost me. The last time it cost me, it was like $2,000 for the accountant and about 3500

Unknown Speaker  56:43
for the attorney, I think,

Unknown Speaker  56:49
yeah, it's not cheap, but well worth it. Well worth it.

Speaker 1  56:58
You know, it's like, every year it's been like three grand for your home insurance, right? You don't need it until you need it.

Speaker 2  57:07
Just out of curiosity, do you know how much a forensic accountant cost, like their ballpark?

Unknown Speaker  57:13
I don't, I don't,

Speaker 1  57:15
I think. I don't know. I don't know if I would if you need that. I mean, a good, a good CPA that's willing to get the information you're, you know, and and has been through this stuff many times, can probably do about what the forensic accountant will just try, you know, try to call and see what they say. Call, call Randy and just see what he says about tell him your concerns, and tell him this is your first one, and the size of this business, and just see what he recommends. He might not know he he might be, I guess he's so far away, though. What state is this in?

Unknown Speaker  57:57
This is in Florida, yeah. But

Speaker 1  57:59
it's not like you can't get every report remotely anyway. But I would, I would just do that, like, just, just call him and talk to him. He's not going to charge you for

Unknown Speaker  58:10
that and see what he's give him a call tomorrow. Yeah,

Speaker 1  58:14
yeah, see what he says. And, you know, maybe he could break, you know, a more of a full service CPA for something like this, he

Unknown Speaker  58:24
might be able to point you in that direction, too.

Unknown Speaker  58:29
Awesome. Sounds good. Thank you. And I

Speaker 1  58:32
don't even know if he can do stuff in other states. That's I'm not sure about that. You know, that's why I wanted a local one. So I just I know he's good. He's not shasty, and he's been doing it for a long time.

Speaker 3  58:47
Also, I just want to add, I didn't know that anyone can pull a print report right on, like any business entities. So you just pay like, $50 let's say this Equifax business can pull all the debts they have or trade lines. Yeah, maybe you can find something useful towards you.

Speaker 1  59:10
Yeah, you can get the, you know, the Dun and Bradstreet number. This business has been around for a long time. So, you know, you definitely want to go to Dun and Bradstreet and see what it says. Go to case net, or whatever your equivalent is in your in your state, that shows all the legal proceedings, any lawsuits, there's, there's a lot involved in due diligence, like you want to know the full story of everything, you're going to start talking to the employees when you get access to it, maybe the GM, or, I'm sure they have multiple managers. That's a lot of employees, but just to get a sense of like, the climate and the culture of the business,

Unknown Speaker  59:55
seven managers, wow, yeah, that's a big one.

Speaker 1  1:00:03
It definitely keep me posted.

Speaker 2  1:00:09
Yeah, I was gonna say, like, the employee count. Like, I think they're very over inflated. Like, maybe that's just the owner likes these people, and he's, like, generous, but they're only open five hours a day. Like, how can you give that many people hours being open, five hours a day?

Speaker 1  1:00:26
Like, yeah, I don't know. It's very hard to find good employees for the restaurant industry. I mean, they're paying that many employees, and they're still bringing in 1.5 million a year.

Speaker 2  1:00:43
It's working every year for the last four years.

Speaker 1  1:00:45
Yeah, it's working so, you know, and that's one of those things that you just keep in the back of your mind, like, after you get accustomed to the to the business and running it, you know, like, maybe I want to save some money on payroll, but, you know, at the beginning, keep everything the same. You know, you don't want to come in, definitely cutting the fat, because if you do that, you'll lose a ton of employees, because they'll get spooked and they'll jump ship.

Speaker 2  1:01:19
That kind of falls into another question. I thought, I know, normally do profit sharing with your kinds of business, but that's not really common in, like, restaurants. No, how would you structure like, like, what do you think a good offer is for, like, a employment contract? Like, how many years for how much signing bonus?

Speaker 1  1:01:40
Well, I mean, are you expecting to have one general manager over all the the other managers is, is that the structure? Now, do you know?

Speaker 2  1:01:48
I'm not sure of the structure. Now, I know, ideally, like, the head manager is going to be the person in the family with, like, the two decades of restaurant experience, yeah. So you're, you're one

Unknown Speaker  1:02:01
of those managers to step up into that role?

Speaker 2  1:02:06
Well, I have a like in the family, we have a manager that's going to step up into that role. So these are kind of going to be like lower managers, like assistant managers, in a practical sense, not I

Speaker 1  1:02:18
wouldn't, I wouldn't do any of that. Then there's no reason to do profit sharing if you're still going to have, you know, someone do that kind of management. Yeah, I mean, and restaurants are different. It's a common model, like, you know, there's a manager at every subway. They don't get any profit sharing. They don't get anything like that. They're the manager. They make more money, and they don't have to cut the onions because somebody else cut the onions, you know, like, whatever it is, their incentives to work there. Like, yeah, I don't think you would need that for this business. It's a it's a different animal.

Speaker 2  1:02:54
Got you. So I think, because I do want them to say, at least initially, then I probably should just base it off. Like, how I feel talking to them, like, saying, like, hey, we want to keep you, you know, do you want to stay kind of thing?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:07
Yeah. And if there are a couple, like,

Speaker 1  1:03:11
seem like stars, you know, or, you know, you can feel it out, and you could still do an employment agreement. You just want to do prop, you know, the profit sharing. But what is their incentive to sign that agreement and be locked in because they don't know anything about you? You could be the biggest jerk in the world to work for, and they wouldn't know, and so they're probably not going to want to sign it. So, yeah, I would just leave things as is. Talk to them, make sure that they know that you're committed to keeping the employees and, you know, keeping them comfortable. But, and that's if the owner is going to allow you to talk about the deal with them. You don't know yet,

Speaker 2  1:03:56
I think I'd probably require that, like, at least like, I think you mentioned one time, like, 48 hours before the closing day, like, I want to talk to them at least at one point, right?

Speaker 1  1:04:07
Yeah, yeah, you do. And you want to level with them and like, Hey, here's the thing. But I don't know. I mean, that's, you can't always get that from an owner if they've already been burned by private equity once. Do the employees know that?

Unknown Speaker  1:04:24
I'm not sure that'd be a

Unknown Speaker  1:04:27
good question to ask.

Speaker 1  1:04:29
You know, when you get in front of the owners, like, how did you how did you get through that deal falling through? And what'd your employees say? You know, just kind of play it, play it down like that, because if they've if they didn't know at all, and they were in due diligence for a long time, that tells you that the owner probably is not going to let you talk to them, at least not till right at the very end. And even then, they might not, they don't have to agree to that.

Speaker 2  1:04:58
That's true. I. That's my way of Yeah, that's a great idea. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:15
Okay, guys, bye.
