Speaker 1  00:03
Hello, everyone. This is the money Language Academy, and it's Thursday, May 15, 2025 and this evening, we're going to talk about strategies on how to preserve cash flow once you get it, how to save money on your taxes and using real estate to do that, but more specifically, short term rentals in order to do that. So we're going to talk about short term versus long term rentals, pros and cons of each how to pick your strategy, how to find a good short term rental, how to know it's a good deal, and then how to set it up in a way that it's it saves you taxes, but at the same time, it's not driving you nuts, trying to keep up with the management of it and coordinating all everything that has to go on with the short term rental. Because short term rentals, there's a reason why you get such great tax benefits, is because the management of them is intense. You know, you have people, it's like a like a little hotel. You have people coming in daily, weekly, you know, every few days. And everything has to be clean. Everything has to be, you know, spotless. You have to, you live and die by your reviews. And then in order for you to get the tax benefits, you have to personally manage it, or at least show that you're personally managing it, and you're spending more time on it than anyone else, at least temporarily. So we'll talk about that, but so let's get into it.

Unknown Speaker  01:33
So okay,

Speaker 1  01:38
so obviously everybody understands what a long term rental is. That's your your standard rental. You get a single family home or duplex or whatever. You put somebody in there with a long term lease for a year more. You sit back and collect checks. And sometimes that works out, and sometimes it doesn't. It depends on the deal. And the whole adage of you make money on real estate when you buy, not when you sell, is totally true, especially in this market. It's very hard to make a single family home or even a duplex cash flow with even with interest rates coming down. But just because where the rents are and where the property valuations are, it's very difficult. So used to have the whole 1% rule, which means, you know, if you pay $100,000 for an investment property, it should draw $1,000 a month in rent. You know, that was kind of the old rule of thumb. And it's very, very hard to find that anywhere these days. I mean, you can find it in probably more likely to find it in the Midwest or in the south or, you know, class C and D neighborhoods, but then that comes with a whole bunch of problems along with it. So So you got to figure out what strategy is best for you and what you're trying to get out of it. If you're trying to just make a long term investment and preserve money that you've already made, and maybe you have a lot of passive gains from selling stocks or selling crypto, anything like that, then maybe a long term rental is the best situation. But if you are looking for cash flow, you're looking to make a property that normally wouldn't make money as a long term rental. You're trying to, you know, kind of juice the profitability of a property, then short term rental might be the way to go. So, yeah, we're just going to go through pretty much the ins and outs of both, so regular investment properties, and we're just talking mainly single family homes right now. So just, just kind of put your mind there, you know, you got short term rentals, long term and midterm rentals. So a short term is what you, you know, think about Airbnb, VRBO, there's, there's a lot of different sites, booking.com, you can use them too, and it's anything less than 30 days, essentially, would be considered like your average stay is less than 30 days, would be considered a short term rental, long term a year more. And then midterm is anywhere between a month and 12 months. So for midterm, usually that's like traveling nurses, people traveling for any kind of work type situation. Sometimes you'll have construction like Foreman's and thing like things like that, will come in and they're going to work in an area for six months, and they just need the the home during the week, and they go home on the weekends, like that kind of stuff. That's midterm. But there's, there's a reason why short term rentals are so fashionable right now, and there's a lot of people saying that they're they're dying, and I would not agree with that. I think that it depends on the market. The market's very favorable in my area. It's very favorable when you get out of the larger cities. But the competent. Condition can be intense. They are constantly changing laws. There's a lot of pressure from the big hotels to restrict short term rentals because it's causing them to lose money. So there's a lot more risk that comes with short term rentals. But you know, you've got, it's, it's several different families within short term rentals. You've got the ones that are like vacation homes on beachfront, lakefront, you know, in the mountains, like those classic vacation destinations, the competition is very intense there. So you have to have amenities that are a one, you know, you have got to have a hot tub. You've got to every bed, every bedroom has a king bed. You've got, you know, coffee bars and you name it, all luxury type situations, because you're competing with other really nice homes, and everybody wants to vacation at a destination that's nicer than where they live, right? That's just kind of human nature. That's what we're all hoping for with a vacation to relax, to, you know, experience some luxury and some carefree living, and then go go home and go back to work. So and then you have the other side of that, which is business related. So it could be just regular travel, people coming through. It could be like in my situation, I live in the capital city. So people come through all the time to see it's kind of a little bit hybrid, you know, they come through to see the sites, but at the same time, they come through before weddings and for working in government, that kind of stuff. So it's kind of a little of both. And I don't have to compete with the vacation rentals around here, because it's not like a considered a vacation destination. So the advantages of short term rental Are you can take a property that would not necessarily cash flow as a long term rental, and you can make it cash flow pretty substantially as a short term rental. If you do it the right way. There's so much flexibility in how you can set it up. You can set it up to be an affordable place for anyone to live. You can set it up to be where you want, you know, people to stay a week, or, you know, two weeks. You can there's you can set up basically any kind of rules that you want, and any kind of decorating, and you know, who you're trying to attract. There's just so much you can do with it. And then the dynamic pricing of it, you can use software that by the demand, by holidays, by weekends. You know, it uses an algorithm to set your price, so you give it a range. Say your range is from two to $400 a night. And if it's on a Saturday, on Fourth of July weekend, it's closer to $400 if it's a Tuesday in January, it's all the way down at, you know, 200 but it does it for you, and then you don't ever have to worry about evictions, right? No one is. You don't even, you don't even have a lease. You can have a rental agreement through those websites, but there's no official lease, there's no squatters rights, anything like that. It's basically like having a house guest in your house, someone coming to visit you, and if they don't want to leave, you can call the police and make they will make them leave, because it's not, it's not your standard tenant landlord situation. Now the disadvantages are, if you live in a you know you're going to do a vacation one, and it's seasonal, say, for instance, you know a snow destination, you know that might not necessarily have snow all year. Or if it's some like a beach, beach thing, like Jersey Shore, or something like that, you know, people probably don't want to hang out the Jersey Shore. And the Jersey Shore and the beginning of February like they do in July. Also, it takes a lot of time, a lot more time than a long term rental. Long term rental, you put someone in, you just check them every now and then, as long as they are paying the bills and paying the rent. Doesn't really matter. You also have some higher startup costs because you have to furnish it. This is the same situation with midterm rentals. You know, they expect for you to have, you know, beds, good mattresses, sheets, towels, everything that you would expect to find at a hotel you would expect to find at the short term rental as well. And then regulations, so there are usually some extra taxes that you have to know about, like lodging taxes, because they want, you know, the government wants their piece. And you know, if the mark, if the sentiment towards the short term rental turns, you know, they could easily create some regulations that make it harder for you to make money or to rent it, or they can even kill the whole short term rental market in general. The last time I went to Maui, I stayed in a the same, the same Airbnb that we usually stay in, and they, they were one of the only ones that was going to survive the regulations that the Maui government had just. Put in place to specifically target short term rentals, because there's a lot of people that don't like them, because it over inflates property values, because a property that normally an investor wouldn't want, because it doesn't make money, and maybe a regular person could just buy that as their primary home, as a short term rental, it does make money, and then that make makes more competition and increases the property value, and then the the person that's just looking for a home has a difficult time buying in that area. So that's that's another reason for some backlash, especially in vacation destinations. We talked about the long you know, what's the differences between long term rentals and short term rentals? And you know, you you expect the tendency to be just regular families. It's not going to be necessarily like a lease to a business or anything like that. And you have some financing advantages. It's easier to get financing for long term rental because it's, it's a 30 year mortgage. It's, you know, there's hundreds of 1000s of those mortgages all over the place. It's just a known commodity. Short term rental is still fairly young. And, you know, like even the term Airbnb, it's, it's kind of, you know, taken on its own meeting when it first started. The reason why they called it Airbnb was because they were just trying to get people to have air mattresses in their spare room, and then somebody that was traveling through could rent that room and that air mattress in somebody's home. And thus the term Airbnb. And then now it's morphed into this big thing where, you know, it's a it's a noun, it's a verb, you know, like, Oh, I'm going to Airbnb this house. Like, it's just part of our culture nowadays. And as far as the, you know, the advantages of long term rentals, you have more consistent income. You know, when you have a tenant in there and they're paying pretty much what you're getting every month doesn't require as much effort. If you get a good tenant in there, you can keep that tenant for, you know, 510, years or more sometimes. And the insurance is way, way lower on long term rentals than it is short term. Short term rental insurance is about twice as much. I just got a quote on we have a five bedroom. It's a short term rental this it just came up for new insurance this month, and they want $3,400, a year for short term rental insurance on it. So around here, that's very expensive insurance. The disadvantages for long term rentals are you can't get as much money. You can't get them to cash flow like you can short term rental. There's just only so much that people are going to pay to rent it. If they stop paying, you have to go through a very expensive process. You know, can take three to six months to get someone evicted out of there, and then you had very limited amounts, especially in certain states where they're not landlord friendly, you can only raise rents so much. So, you know, like 10% a year, 5% a year. Some states don't care, but you're going to, you're going to price yourself out of a tenant eventually. So let's just think about them side by side. You're going to get more money for the short term rental than you do long term but if people don't want to come to your short term rental and it's going to stay vacant for long periods of time, then you're going to be losing money, and you're still paying the insurance, you're still paying the electric, you know, you have all that furniture in there, all that kind of stuff, the time commitment. You're going to put a lot more into it. The laws could change. Startup costs are high maintenance is a little bit more than long term rentals, and the financing can be a little bit different. If you're going to if you're buying something that is already a short term rental, then you usually have to get a commercial loan, because it won't appraise as a single family primary, you know, investment primary, home or investment property. So it's a little bit more difficult and but it just depends, but you make way more money. And what this chart doesn't show is the tax advantages on short term rentals are huge compared to long term rentals. So let me just give you an example of that same home that I was just talking about that the rent came up. So this house is it's a five bedroom, one and a half bath, 2600 square feet. How we bought it for 239,000 it needed some work. I'm not including the work that we put in. I'm not including the, you know, furnishings and all that stuff. But just in general, like when we were evaluating this deal on what we could do with it. So the the income, the average income we're making per month on it right now is about $4,200 a month as a short term rental, the expense. Is including, you know, the mortgage and the insurance, not including the cleaning, because the cleaning is included in the price. And I didn't, I didn't put that on the 4200 that's in addition to what it's already bringing in. So the profit there is, like, $2,200 a month, whereas if we were to do it as just a single family home, and a family would move in there at most. And this is, this is kind of a rosy number with be 1300 per month because of where it's at. You know, it's 125 year old home, which is, you know, really cool for people to come and visit. But a lot of people, you know, want more modern looking stuff, and the expenses with the mortgage and the, you know, you pay for, like garbage, or, you know, sewer, whatever you're going to include in your lease, so we'd be losing about 500 bucks a month if we tried to long term rent this thing. So obviously, it's, it's a way to really squeeze more income out of a property. And then, not to mention, you know, the tax benefits that we're going to bring up. So when to pick it like, when is the time to short term rent something? You know, if you're in a place that sees a lot of traffic, you think it's a good touristy destination, it's the right price, that kind of stuff. And you feel like it's going to have, you know, high occupancy rate, that might be good, and you have time, or you, you know, you're willing to give some of your in, some of the income produced from it, to a property manager. The zoning of that area allows for short term rentals, and you would like to use that as a tax strategy, and maybe you have an idea for how you would make it stand out in the market. So the one that we just did, this one, is prison, prison themed, where every every room is like cell block one, cell block two, the inmate kitchen, and it's got, like, all these pictures of prison stuff, because it's like a block away from a prison that was. It's a tourist attraction that was built in like 1836 so people come and they stay there, and then I go through the the tour over there. So it's like, it stands out in the market, because no one else has a theme like that. There are some people that I've seen. I forget what his name is, but he's got a bunch of short term rentals, and he's got, like, a sci fi theme, a vampire theme, pirate theme, like, he's all these different ones, and they're really they're cheaply decorated. It doesn't cost him a lot of money to do it, but they're really cool, and they photograph well, so it makes those properties stand out, and it's a fun place to take kids. And, you know, obviously it just makes sense. But long term rentals are good to choose when you just want something stable, you you you're a little bit worried about the laws. You don't want to deal with it. You know, on a daily basis, you're looking at properties that are in good neighborhoods. And the reason why that matters is because Class A and B, properties that are in good neighborhoods appreciate at a faster rate than, you know, some property in A, C and D, you know, run down kind of neighborhoods those, some of those don't appreciate at all. So you might have a property for 10 years in a bad neighborhood that barely appreciates at all. And then, you know, if you don't have a lot of startup money to set up a short term rental, then that can be another factor. However, the one that we just did, we didn't buy any new furniture. The only thing we bought brand new was mattresses and box springs and linens, everything else we got our Facebook marketplace because we were looking for, like, a boho kind of theme. And it just, it just worked out. And no one has ever said anything they they love it. And like, the furniture in that whole place is, like, probably less than $5,000 for all the furniture. So here we are legal and tax considerations. So obviously you can't put a short term rental someplace where it's not zoned for it. You've got certain cities where they'll say, you know, it's only zoned as a single family home. You can't do anything else. You can't short term rent it. So you have to be careful and know the zoning in the laws. Now the short term rental loophole, that's the tax strategy that I'm talking about. So this is in the tax code, and it says that if you are a principal participant in a short term rental, that you can deduct all of the losses from a short term rental off of your active income, generally in real estate. So if you have a four Plex, you have a single family home that's just regular long term rental. Any depreciation losses that you can show from that can only come off your passive income. So you have two buckets. When it comes to your taxes, you've got passive income and active income. And so passive income would be. Considered stocks, bonds, crypto, things like that, that you just bought and sold you didn't actually, you know, work for that money. Active would be, I'm actively getting a paycheck. I'm actively, you know, doing something to earn that income. So you can't mix those two buckets, but a short term rental is considered active income because of the you know, you have to put time into it. So the IRS is really strict on what they require you to show for short term rental loophole, to be a principal, a principal participant in it. So you have to show 500 hours for the year or more than anyone else has put into it. So if you bought one in, say, for instance, October, and you've got 30 hours into it, and no one else has more than 10, then you would qualify as long as your average stay is less than seven days. So that is also a strategy that some people do. They'll they'll find a property that works as both a long term rental and a short term rental. They'll buy it toward the end of the year, they'll short term rent it for a month or two, and then when the when the year turns over, they'll switch it to a long term rental. You still get all the tax benefits from that first year, all that depreciation and all that stuff, but at the same time, you've converted it over, and you don't have the headache of managing it. So that is also a consideration there. So what do I mean by the losses from a short term rental I just showed you that the one that we have is cash flowing. This last one that we have anyway, it's cash flowing like 2000 I don't know. Let's call it $2,000 a month. Well, because of depreciation, you you every every property, every house, depreciates at a schedule of 27 and a half years. So if you bought something for $200,000 that's the structure. You take $200,000 divided by 27 and a half, and that's what you can deduct as depreciation per year every year that you have it. But with short term rentals, well, any rentals, but it only makes sense for short term you can do what's called a Cost Segregation analysis. It's you hire a company, and some of them can do it virtually. The last one I just did was virtually. And they will, they just want the particulars of the house. They'll they want, you know, they'll look at pictures and all that stuff, and they'll say, okay, the cabinets depreciate this much, the appliances depreciate this much, the furniture this much, the siding, the roof, the the the plumbing, the fence, the yard, the landscaping, like they put numbers on the depreciation of everything that's not considered the immediate structure. And so you end up with it's about 25% more depreciation. Well, it's about 25% of what the overall cost is. So say, if the house was a $200,000 house, you're going to get around $50,000 in deductions from that for that first year, and you get bonus depreciation as well. So this, this last year, it was 60% was the bonus depreciation right after covid They started. It was you got 100% depreciation. The next year it was 80% then last year was 60% then this year, you know, when you do taxes for 2025 it's going to be 40% unless they change it, they keep saying they're going to push it back to 100 we'll see. Don't hold your breath. But So last year, it was 60% so that means that you get an additional 60% so say the regular depreciation on the home was 10,000 then you get 50,000 from the Cost Segregation analysis. That's 60,000 in in deductions right there. So you can take 60% of that, which is what 30 another, 36,000 so you're talking about $96,000 in deductions for that one property plus it's still making you money. Of course, you have to take the income off of that. So was that, say 20,000 off there. So still you've got 60,000 plus in deductions that you can take off any of your income from your w2 job, from your your business, or whatever. You can take that off the top, and it saves you tons of money and taxes, and also, just like off the record here, like anything that you need for your home, the short term rent. The short term rental can buy that for you. That's also a deduction. Like, you know, that's what business owners do all the time. The caveat to this is you got to hold it for five years. If you don't hold it for five years and you sell it the next year, the IRS is going to come back and say, Hey, we gave you all these deductions. Because we thought you were going to keep this property for a while. You gotta we're going to reclaim some of that, and they're going to put it on your next year of taxes. So you have to keep it for five years. But that doesn't mean it has to be a short term rental for five years. It could just go to a regular rental.

Unknown Speaker  25:16
Is that making sense to everybody? I know that was a lot of information right there.

Speaker 2  25:22
Everybody makes sense. Okay, okay.

Speaker 1  25:27
So, so say you want to do this strategy like, Okay, I want to find a short term rental. How do I start? Okay, you just start looking for single family homes in whatever area. Do the research on the area, make sure the zoning is okay, make sure there's no restrictions against it, and everything's cool. And so you say you found one. You're like, Okay, I found one. Let's go analyze this thing. So there's a site called Air DNA. And air DNA, obviously, it's a play on Airbnb. You know, it's like, you know, what are the bones and the makeup of a good Airbnb? And you can put an address in here. Now, obviously, if you have to pay for subscription to get the all the research, but you can just put a regular one, and I'll just put one of my properties in here. Let's see. I

Speaker 2  26:28
maybe not know

Unknown Speaker  26:35
why I didn't like that. I

Speaker 2  26:51
know, I don't know why it's not coming up to find a different one doesn't really matter. We'll just find any random thing it's going to make me log in. I'm

Unknown Speaker  27:28
there we go.

Speaker 1  27:34
Okay, so this will allow you to at least see the market in this area. Say you're you're considering this city, in this neighborhood. You can go through here and you can look, okay, well,

Unknown Speaker  27:51
here's a short term rental right here.

Speaker 1  27:55
Let's check this one out, and it might be down the street or something, and you can just see what it's doing. Here's the size of it. It's getting $300 a night. They want you to upgrade in order to see, like what the occupancy is and all that stuff is. But this is a good tool to be able to see what you could possibly get per night, right? So this tells you it's got seven beds, it's got four bathrooms. It sleeps 14 This is a big one. This is a big short term rental. It's the market score. That's zero to 100 so that's not considered a really good market. But still, if it's getting 300 a night, it's not bad, right? So this is a great tool to just go through and check out the market, and if you get the basic they also have, like, a an intro, free, like trial period that you can use just to check it out. So you can come in here and just sign up for it, look around, and then delete it. And then, if you you want to do it again, you're looking for another one, just use a different Google account, to the same thing, then close it like everybody knows the play for that, right? Because they have and it's anywhere from like a cheap one to hundreds of dollars a month, if you're hardcore short term rental market person.

Speaker 2  29:14
But yeah, I mean, you can basically put any state in here and go check it out. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  29:23
Shane, I have a question. Okay,

Speaker 3  29:26
so is this two only to look up other data, or will it help us to figure out the area, if we can buy short term if we can buy property for short term rental, like in the area that I live, it's a good strategic place for short term rental, but the village itself is fighting the short term rental. So can I use this tool to be able to say, okay, yeah, I could buy this. If this thing is available, I can go for this. Would that help? Yeah.

Speaker 1  30:01
I mean, I'm pretty sure see right here where it says regulation. So if you upgrade, you can see, it'll tell you what the regulations are in that area. But you can also just Google that, you know. You can put you can ask chat GPT, you know, what are the regulations like? And bug tussle, Alabama for short term rentals, you know. And it'll basically show you, and then it'll tell you the sources that it got that information from. You can go double check to make sure it's correct information. But, yeah, this, this, this will give you all that information, but you have to pay for it. You can do all the research yourself otherwise, but, but this kind of helps out.

Unknown Speaker  30:39
How much is this platform.

Speaker 2  30:42
Oh, that is a good question. Let me see,

Speaker 1  30:52
there you go. So they don't even show the I don't know why it's not showing all this stuff, but they have an advanced one that's way more expensive. Yeah, you got to get a quote for it. That's what you shouldn't need. More than just the Pro, the advanced one is for people that have, like, dozens of short term rentals and are doing arbitrage and all this stuff. Which short term rental arbitrage just means that someone else owns the property, but you're going to manage the you're going to lease it from from that owner for a year, or however long, they'll let you lease it, and then you'll run it as a short term rental. That's what arbitrage is. And then they have, you know, business ones too, but, but, yeah, so, 35 bucks a month. 34 bucks a month.

Speaker 2  31:39
Okay, yeah, yeah, no problem. So another one, another tool for this, is price labs. Remember, I was talking about the way to do dynamic pricing. So my favorite one is, is price labs.

Unknown Speaker  31:58
Now price labs will let you

Unknown Speaker  32:08
Okay, so here's one.

Speaker 1  32:12
It will change the pricing based on the night, so you can see, you know, even in May, like it's wildly different. This is, I guess, Memorial Day weekend, probably. So it's up to $310 a night on Memorial Day weekend, and even the weekend after, whereas, like on a random Monday and Tuesday, it's 222 15. And then when you you know, January and February, it's a lot cheaper. But so you can, there's a lot of knobs and things that you can you can turn here to maximize how much money you're getting. And one of the, one of the things they do is they do the same thing that hotels do. Everybody thinks, if you book a hotel, like, six months out, like, Okay, I'm going to reserve, get a reservation at this at the Hilton for December 1. Well, they're going to charge you more money than if you did it the week before, generally, because they just know that people are that are planning trips that far in advance. They have the resources. They're serious about the trip, and they will pay more money because that's what they want. So they use this, that same strategy here, and then also price labs will give you all the neighborhood data. Of you know how everything is running in that neighborhood, what the prices are, the average daily rate competitors near you, like all it's got all kinds of really cool information. And then how you stack up against hotels, because you can see the prices on hotels, and then you know how they're going up and down. You know how you can set your prices too. So this, and this is, I think, $19 a month, and it sets all your prices and everything's well worth it, as far as I'm concerned. And the if you use Airbnb, they have dynamic pricing on there. It's trash. It'll actually cost you more money than it it makes you

Unknown Speaker  34:05
so the next thing would be

Speaker 1  34:08
actually managing it. And we manage ours with hospitable. So this same property that we were just looking at in hospitable, you can see that's like, that's a VRBO, that's Airbnb, Airbnb, so Booking com, like they're all hooked up to it. So this is how you keep from getting double bookings. Is using this hosting software where you know you've got Booking com, you've got VRBO, you've got Airbnb, and they're all separate. So you want to make sure that someone on Airbnb that doesn't Book your place on Airbnb, and then another person goes to VRBO and books the same day, because you'll get in big trouble and get penalized from those booking platforms. So this helps with that. It also it's really cool, because it uses AI to send messages out. Automated messages and answer questions. So if somebody sends me a question like, hey, what's the door code, or how do I work the TV or whatever, AI will answer those questions for them. It will only come through to me if they ask something that it doesn't understand. Then, then it'll actually send me the message. But after it answers that mess, that that question, that time, it won't send it to me again, because it knows how to answer it. It learns as you go. You can upsell where, if somebody wants, you know, say, somebody staying for two days and the day after and the day before is available, you can say, hey, I'll give you 15% discount if you want to book the day before the day after, because it's all about how many nights you can book.

Unknown Speaker  35:49
It has a direct booking

Speaker 1  35:53
that you can use. It's got, I mean, so much stuff. It's really cool. And this also, when a new reservation comes in, it sends a message to your cleaning staff to say, hey, cleaning staff, there's a new reservation. You need to have this cleaned by this time on this day. But it just takes all of that active management that we were talking about that 500 hours, and makes it, you know, way easier, because I'm not not dealing with with with people coming in and out. I'm not dealing with the cleaning staff. It's all being handled through here. And this costs $20 a month. I think it costs 60 if you want a direct booking site and some of the fancy stuff, but otherwise, 20 bucks a month. And it also, if you have a Smart Lock, it changes, it automatically changes the code for the smart lock to the guest, the last four digits of the guests phone number an hour before they're due to check in, so you don't even have to worry about that. And when you when they leave, it changes the code. It removes that code and sets it up for the next guest. It's like just it's almost effortless. It's amazing, but it saves so much time. Smart B, and B is another one. There's also one called Vacasa. And I can't remember the other one, but I've, I've used, I've used Vacasa, I've used hospitable, and I looked into

Speaker 2  37:24
geez, said Logie lodge or something like that. And hospitable is by far my favorite one. It's this is like, it's not even close, okay?

Speaker 1  37:35
And then for long term, long term rentals, we've talked about it before, rent ready is free. You can use it. It'll collect rents for you. You can do all your management stuff through there. It's great lease templates. It's got everything you need. But, yeah, so that's that's like the last component of the system, right is to be able to save that money that you're making from all of these businesses and be able to preserve that cash flow so you know, you've made $100,000 extra from whatever business. You know, obviously, if you're paying the debt off early, you don't need the short term rental. Guesty, that's what it was. Thank you, Brooke, yeah, not lofty. I don't know what else lofty is, is where you can use crypto to buy a piece of

Speaker 4  38:30
an apartment building you might have met logify. I've seen that as a management before. There you go.

Speaker 1  38:35
I mushed them both together, yeah, but I have, I have looked at guesty. I did a they have, like, a free trial period. And I just didn't like it. It is, I don't know, I'm just spoiled, I think, by hospitable, but yeah, so if you think about it, so you buy a business, say it's an extra $100,000 income you pay you first you're paying off the debt, which is deductible, right? And then after that, you've got this extra $100,000 you're like, Well, I don't want to pay 25% of that to the federal government. How are you how do you preserve it? Well, rather than pay it to the government and get a property with it that also makes money and it just, it just reduces your tax burden, while, at the same time, allows you to get another asset that's going to appreciate, that's going to make money, that's going to save you in taxes. And I mean, it's it's just a great way to keep that wheel in motion. And if you buy after you get one paid off, if you buy a short term rental to go along with it, and you just keep it going, keep it going. Keep it going. You only have to do the principal. Material or material participation the first year when you get that big deduction that you're looking for. After that, it doesn't matter, then you can have a management company do it if you want to, which is what I've been having my property management company deal with the ones that that I'm not actively managing. That's why you see one on there, because that's the one that I'm actively managing right now. When we get to, when I get to where I'm going to get another one, then I'll hand that over the property management company. I'll take it off my list. I'll get another one, and we'll just keep going. I want, I think I want to do monster house. It's going to be the next one with, you know, I love that stuff, so it'd be like Frankenstein's lab or something. But we took a old this last one, we took an old property that was kind of run down, and it had businesses in it. When we bought it, it was a magazine company had just sold their their business to someone in a different city, and they just, they made a lot of money on it, and they just wanted out and they were going to retire. And we picked it up, basically cleaned it really good, and painted and marketplace furniture and artwork and bright accent walls and weird, weird artwork and put the theme in there, and we went from brand new to the the number one occupancy in the whole area, in the whole city, because we were the only one that was doing a theme. Even now, no one's got a theme. You go on Airbnb and they all look the same. They're all cream colored walls, big fluffy pillows and nothing different. And you come to ours, and it's like an orange wall, a green wall, and bars on this and signs and fun selfie stations for the kids and like all that kind of stuff. And I don't, I don't know why people haven't caught on to it, but I'm sure they're, they're feeling it, because any other ones that sleep 1012, or 14 people have taken a hit since ours came online. But I don't know I love it. It's fun. It's like the the flip side, it's my favorite. My favorite thing to do in real estate is, is the short term rentals at this point. But I'm in a good place where, you know, all I have to do is pay 7% lodging tax. That's it. There are no regulations on it whatsoever. It's it's wide open.

Speaker 2  42:11
Okay. Is everybody ready to go get a short term rental? Is that the plan

Unknown Speaker  42:17
sounds like fun, but,

Speaker 3  42:21
I mean, I know the area that I live in,

Unknown Speaker  42:26
you have to own the property, or you have to, like,

Speaker 3  42:32
yeah, pretty much like, have the entire building to yourself to do anything like that, yeah, if you are buying, like, a tiny house and it's attached to another townhouse, you cannot use it,

Unknown Speaker  42:48
okay? Yeah, it's

Unknown Speaker  42:49
really rough right here,

Speaker 1  42:51
yeah, well, that's, that was what a lot of people were doing. So they have their home, and then they put an adu, is what it's called, and, you know, alternate dwelling unit. And so they put a tiny home in the back, or just a little structure. And then, you know, Airbnb that, because it's extra income, you know, you can put, if you can, you can buy one of those tiny homes for like, you can get them used, especially on marketplace, for like, six, $7,000 if they're not finished on the inside. And if you are fairly handy, you can put the plumbing in the electrical and all that stuff, and you can rent those out for $100 a night, you know, two, three nights a week. That's that's a lot of good extra income that normally you just have old, beat up shed back there with an old lawn mower in it. So I understand why people would want to do that, but I know they're really cracking down in California on those ADUs for short term rentals, for sure, and like they are really, that's one thing they're strict on in my area, is mobile homes and tiny homes. They don't anywhere in the city limits. You're not going to see any of those. They're just they're they have regulations to keep those out. They think they're, I don't know. I guess they think they're trashy. I'm not sure.

Speaker 3  44:08
Question for the prop see, when you mentioned Chrysler

Unknown Speaker  44:16
price labs, can we

Speaker 3  44:18
still do the pro price? But yet have it like the advantage of having the information that is available for the property, because I was thinking, prior to this class month, the place I'm in right now I'm renting, what is a great location like? I live in a small city that is between the suburb and the main city, so it's a hot take for a lot of state rented so I was thinking about using this current location is opposite to. Mature that does a lot of program in the area, a lot of short space. So I was thinking about talking to my landlady to say, hey, I'll continue to rent, but I'm not. I'm gonna use it for Airbnb. She's gonna permit me.

Speaker 1  45:16
So she might, I mean, she might, as long as you get because here, here's here's the selling point on that, on Airbnb arbitrage, right there. It was really, it was a fad a few years ago, and it was really big. A lot of people that were doing it have gotten out, though, because it's kind of a headache, and you don't get the appreciation for the property, you don't get the tax, but you don't get a whole bunch of the benefits that you get from owning but what you what you do get is, you know, decent cash flow if you know what you're doing. So the selling point to the owner is, you know, these are going to be good tenants that are coming in. I'm going to guarantee that you get your rent every time. You never have to do an eviction. The property is going to be well maintained. I'm going to put nice furniture in it. I'm going to have it cleaned multiple times a week. We're going to do a deep cleaning once a month, once every other month, something like that. And anything that breaks, I fix so you don't have to worry about it. So that, that's what makes it lucrative to the landlord, because they know they're going to get their rent money. They know it's going to be taken care of, and they don't have to worry about the, you know, fixing the the little day to day stuff. Now they still have to fix the furnace goes out. They have to fix that, things like, you know, the big stuff, mechanicals, but Door, door jams, and, you know, somebody scuffs a wall, like all that kind of stuff you're maintaining. So, I mean, it can be a good deal for them. And if you guys, you know, everybody on here is a tiktoker. You know who investor Mike is. That's his whole thing is teaching people how to do that. But what he doesn't say is that he charges $3,000 for to actually get into his program. Like it's, it's hidden in there, but and he uses air DNA, you know, he uses all the same stuff that we just went over. Because everybody that's in short term rentals knows how all this stuff works, but, you know, you don't know until you know, right? But it can be, it can be a way to make money, but you have to scale it, and you have to, you have all the headaches of management, but none of the benefits of the taxes and none of the appreciation that you would get from owning the property. But you also know how to pay property taxes. You know you're going to have to have some insurance, though. You have to deal with that renters insurance, so you just have to work the numbers and see if it makes sense.

Speaker 3  47:39
Thank you. So if you have multiple rooms in the in the apartment, how does the renting go? Do you rent it to a family? Or can you rent it to multiple people? I mean, how does that

Speaker 1  47:53
I mean, you can do a room in your house. I would never want to do that.

Speaker 3  47:56
Oh, no, no. I mean, like, if I move out and there are multiple rooms on the place. Do you rent it to one person at a time? Well, I

Speaker 1  48:05
mean, it might be a family, it might be one person, but it's just, you know, it's by the nights. You would have a maximum number of people that could be there each night. And then, you know, the you just let the booking site handle it. From that point, you set your rules in the booking site, and then they handle the payments. They handle all that stuff for you, you know, and like so Airbnb, somebody rents. Say they rent tonight, I will get an ACH transfer, usually the night that they're in there for their entire stay. Same with VRBO, it's like a day or two later booking.com is like, three or four days later, but it always comes in. You know,

Speaker 3  48:46
which one do you use the most? And Airbnb is very popular.

Speaker 1  48:50
Yeah, yeah, very popular. And we get way more booking. We actually get more bookings from VRBO than we do Airbnb. But I prefer Airbnb because they have it's called air cover, which is insurance. So if anything gets broken, they cover it. Whereas VRBO and booking.com you have to include that in your pricing, so you either don't make as much money per night, or you just take a risk of, you know, somebody, you know, breaking something and you have to fix it. We've had pretty good luck so far with all of them. We've had some parties that we had to break up,

Unknown Speaker  49:25
you know. But other than that, nothing really damaged.

Unknown Speaker  49:31
Thank you. This sounds interesting, yeah,

Speaker 2  49:33
yeah, no problem. Or did you have your hand up?

Speaker 5  49:36
Yeah? Thank you. Shane, yeah. This is gold information. For sharing this, yeah, question, how do you depreciate like, do you need to have a structure, like, I don't know, like a holding company, or when you have, like, multiple businesses? So if you, let's say you do like short term rental and use this loophole to buy. Loans, depreciation. How do you offset like, the losses into like, other businesses? Or is it just go like, against your like 1040 and then, yeah, just basically deduct right there.

Speaker 1  50:11
Yeah, it just so if it's an LLC that's that is taxed as a sole proprietorship, then it's going to go on your schedule, C, on your 10 four to your businesses. So that just gets added to what your active income is, you know. So you have a w2 job, you have the business, and you have or multiple businesses, whatever. And at the end of that, you get a number, and because this is active income as well, and consider an active loss, then that goes on your expenses that you can deduct from that active income, so you get taxed. Less money actually gets taxed, even though you didn't lose any money. It's all virtual, you know. Now, if you have a C Corp where you're pulling you're getting a salary from the C Corp, then you're just, can only deduct it from the salary of that C Corp. So you know that that's the trade off there, you know. But most of the time, unless you're making a shit ton of money on a business, it's going to be LLC, and you can, you can have an LLC that's taxed as an S corp, and it's still on your, you know, your 1040 so you know, your seller discretionary earnings are still a part of that. And you can deduct all this from that, but at the end of the day, it's about that active income, that whole bucket of there, and that's what you're pulling it out

Unknown Speaker  51:27
of. Got it? Yeah? Okay,

Speaker 1  51:30
okay, I think Brooke had a question too. Do I have a detailed calculator used to evaluate short term rental property? Yeah? So I use the I can show you actually I like the one that is on bigger pockets. I'm a bigger pockets pro member, and they've got a bunch of great calculators on there. And then, when you're a bigger pockets pro member, you get rent ready for free. You get so you get they have had a burr calculator regular rental properties. And then here's their Airbnb and short term rental calculator. You can download it. It used to be part of the site. It's been a while since I looked at it. So Okay, so here is their calculator. Looks a little jumbled, because I opened probably because I opened it in numbers, because I got a Mac, but anyway, so you can see it's not, it's not clicking. Hmm, there we go. So you can see, like you can put all those numbers in. It'll break everything out for you year to year. And so what I'll do is, since it let me download this now, I'll put in the community. I'll throw it out there, because it used to be part of their site, so I'll throw it in there, and everybody can use it. That's that's actually cool. That helps a lot.

Unknown Speaker  53:22
Mm, it awesome. Good question.

Speaker 4  53:29
Keith, hi, Shane, do you ever do any are there additional benefits with midterm rental as well too, or is it basically sure SDR has the best tax benefits.

Speaker 1  53:42
Well, as far as taxes go, they're taxed the same way as a long term rental. Okay, you don't, you don't get the that active income deduction. The the benefits to mid term rental are, you're, you're kind of like halfway in between. As far as the income that it can produce, you can get more income out of a midterm, but you still have to furnish it. It's less management. But if you can, if you get one of those near a hospital, it can be a gold mine. Traveling nurses are probably one of the biggest midterm rental guests. Or tenants, however you want to call it. And you know, they come in there. A lot of times the hospitals will pay for their stay. Comes directly from there. Another, another great client is an insurance company. So if someone their house burns down, they will rent a place for like 90 days and put that family in there so and it's they pay a lot of money, even when it's not rented, just to have the availability in that area. So you will actually sometimes get rent with no one there for months. Oh, nice. So in case you know, because they. Have to be able to put a family in there and within 24 hours, you know, something like that, so that that can be great. It's just you have to really network to get those deals. You have to know the agents. You know, it's, it's tough, because everybody kind of knows about that. Now, that was a, like, a nice hack a couple years ago, but it's not so much anymore. But, yeah, that's that's the main advantage of the midterm is just more income, less less management, but you don't get the tax. Okay?

Speaker 4  55:29
The reason I asked is because I have a I managed to SDRs. I have one that I own and another one that I just manage. It's so hot out here. I live in the desert in California that there's short term. It's kind of dead out here. So I midterm rented in the summer months, and then when it comes to when we go back into, like, high season in the fall, all the way through the end of April, I short term rent it. So I would still being that I'm basically a lot of my cities are under like one or two days, sometimes, would I still be able to take advantage of the short term rental? SDR, benefits or No,

Speaker 1  56:05
yeah, if your average stays less than seven days, okay, yeah, it is. So as long as it's less than seven days, then you're good, okay,

Unknown Speaker  56:15
got it, okay. Um,

Speaker 1  56:17
so yeah, so are using furnish finder to do the mid term rental, um,

Speaker 4  56:22
yeah, for in the past. So this is, I'm going on year two of this one property they have. Last time I got I got a lead off furnace finder. It's furnace finders hit or miss, because it's just a studio apartment for my property that I own. And then right now I have a, I have a midterm tenant in there. I got through Airbnb, which I prefer actually, because Airbnb, like you said, they have air cover. You can do everything, you can, you can, essentially can't manage everything through Airbnb. So if there are any issues with the tenant, it defaults to Airbnb, which I, like you, make a little bit less money. I haven't used verbal before. I've gotten reservations, but they've canceled, so I don't know. I haven't experienced verbo and furnish finder is not bad either. But, yeah, it's a it's it can get competitive, depending where you are, and I'm lucky to, I guess, because I'm an unincorporated area of my city in the incorporated area, you're capped at 30 reservations per year, so I have unlimited and the county regulates me, okay? And they're kind of, I mean, as long as I have a sign up showing my, like, the managing company's information, I'm good,

Speaker 1  57:29
okay, yeah, yeah. I mean, so are you, what are you using right now for software?

Speaker 4  57:35
I just manage it myself. I was using, what was I using? Was using price labs. But it kind of, it wasn't good. I didn't really like, it wasn't good at my price. Wasn't good at my pricing. And it's just, I'm managing only a couple properties. I just do myself. And I just, like you said, the the pricing, I forgot. I forget what it is the pricing on Airbnb, like, the smart pricing, it's bad. It's not good. You have to go and manually change it, adjust yourself. I have to do it. I do it every week if I have vacancies, just because it's not or sometimes, like, a couple of times a week because it's not good.

Speaker 1  58:05
Yeah, yeah. It took me a while to figure out price labs, like, how to use it the right way, and how to know when not maximizing revenue. And once I got the hang of it and I understood what they're doing, it's made it really good. Like, it is definitely, it's probably increased profits by 10% it's definitely worth Yeah, for

Speaker 4  58:26
sure, yeah. I think it's worth it. If you have, if you have, like, I don't know what, three to three plus or four plus properties, I think it's something worth it.

Speaker 1  58:33
Well, then the direct booking, though. So direct booking, you know, you get all of the money. Yeah, yeah, so that that helps too. All you need is a couple of those, and it makes the subscription worth it.

Speaker 4  58:46
Yeah, that's true. That's very true. Actually. Yeah. Cool. Thank you. Yeah, no problem.

Unknown Speaker  58:55
Anybody else have any questions on short term rentals in the loophole

Speaker 5  59:02
question? Okay, I remember you did mention that not all CPAs right can handle all this, like the bonus depreciation, and you have to find the right one right in order to use this.

Speaker 1  59:16
Yeah, yeah, definitely. So I learned about this. I had heard the term, but I didn't seriously consider it until, like, two years ago, and it surprised me how long or like, how many accountants don't understand what how it works. They so what they have in their minds, and which is the traditional deductions for just any rentals are, if you're a real estate professional or your spouse is a real estate professional, you get the same benefits that we get from short term rentals. So if, if your spouse is a realtor or you're a realtor, you can get you can deduct it off your active income automatically, like you don't have to show Prince. Material, material participation, all that stuff like it. That's just you get that that's in your profession. So they understand that very well, because they've been dealing with that for decades. That's always been around. But the short term rental loophole is fairly new, and it just like, got really popular in the last five years or so, and they just don't understand how it works. And I had them. I had two different accountants tell me, No, you can't do it. And I had, I have a log of my hours. I have all this stuff. Like, I went and prepared and like, No, you can't do it. And I had to go to bigger pockets and find a real estate CPA that specializes in short term rental loophole that understands how it works, that knows what you're you know how to do cost seg analysis, how to prove to the IRS that you're, you know, the person that's managing it, that you know your stays are less than this amount, like they they know they have all that stuff ready to go and but they're more expensive. You know, you know? You have to pay for the cost. Seg, you have to pay more for that. CPA, you know. But because, I think this year, just for my real estate, my just my regular personal taxes, is, like $2,000 is what it cost for them, I have a pretty complex tax situation, but that's still a lot of money. But it's either do it myself and pay 10,000 more or more, you know, or let them do it, give them 2000 pay 900 for a cost seg and get, you know, 20 grand back in taxes. That's, that's how big of a difference it is. That's crazy, but yeah, it takes a while. You have to find the right ones.

Speaker 5  1:01:45
And how do you log it? Like you said, you have to have a log, right? Do you use some kind of software?

Speaker 1  1:01:51
Or you can, I used to use it was called Genji, j, e n, j, i, and I had all my hours in there. So you can, you can put hours, you can put expenses. You can do miles, like, if you're going back and forth to your business, to, you know, to get those miles. And it crashed on me, and I lost all of my records, and I had to go back. I could see them on Genji, but I couldn't download it, because it was just they were stuck. So I had to go through, take all that stuff out, and I just, Genji is dead to me, I will never use it again. So I just put everything in regular spreadsheets. From that point, there are some where you can, you can log hours. I just looked at one the other day for that reason.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:39
Let me see what is it called? It's called. There were

Speaker 1  1:02:45
actually a bunch of different ones, but this is kind of what I narrowed it down to. Was this one,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:55
toggle track,

Speaker 1  1:02:58
T, O, G, G, l, track, and it's free, and you can just put your hours in, like, I'm doing this whatever, and you just kind of guess, like when you're setting them up, I spent 10 hours getting everything ready for the pictures, five hours setting up all the web. You know, whether it actually does or not. You know, as long as you have everything logged because if they come and they say, Well, you know is there are you a material participant in this? You need to have the proof ready, at least in a spreadsheet, saying, on this date, I spent this many hours doing this, doing this, doing this, that's how you keep yourself safe, because if you don't meet those criteria, you don't get any of those benefits.

Speaker 5  1:03:42
Yeah, this is great. I like toggle, yeah, a long time ago I have used it. It's a Chrome extension, right?

Speaker 1  1:03:48
Yeah, it's an app I don't on my phone now, it might be a Chrome extension too, yeah, yeah, it's pretty easy, and it's

Speaker 2  1:03:58
free, you know, can't beat that. I anybody

Unknown Speaker  1:04:06
else have any real estate questions?

Unknown Speaker  1:04:10
No, okay,

Speaker 5  1:04:11
nobody else. The last one. Shane, what about the cleaning like? Do you hire just a person, or is there like an app where you can basically pull, like cleaning services here, it

Speaker 1  1:04:26
depends on your area, but there are, you know, there are cleaning services that specialize in short term rentals, you know, and it's pretty expensive to hire one of those cleaning services that specialize in it, because it's not just like a Regular housekeeper coming to your house. You know they're changing the linens. You know they're making the bed like a like they would in a hotel. They're restocking like your coffee, like they're they're getting it guest ready, and then taking all that laundry somewhere. And either they handle the laundry or you pay a service to do it. You. So I've it took a long time to find people that were reliable, that would actually do the good a good job. And I just found some individuals that were looking to make money on the side, and I've had more luck with them than the services. But there are services like Merry Maids. Merry Maids will it's a franchise of housekeepers, and most of them have a short term rental package. If you're in a vacation destination there, there will be a bunch of cleaning services that specialize in exactly that, but it's very expensive. But if you find somebody that does a good job, just a regular person, and that will do the laundry, so we pay $1 a pound for laundry, that's kind of how we do it. And what I do is I just have them weigh it and send me a picture of it on the scale. You know, I trust this person enough to know they didn't put a brick in there at this point, but not at first I would, you know, I had them bring it to me and we'll weigh it and just to make sure, because, you know, trust, but verify and but they, they handle all that. So they, they change the bedding, they do the laundry. And there's a every listing, whether it's VRBO booking.com, whatever, they have a cleaning fee that you can set. You can move that up and down. And some people will really move that up and pay, you know, pay somebody like $75 to clean and then charge 150 cleaning fee, and they'll make money off of that too. I don't do that. I I would rather add that to the nightly rate and then bring the cleaning fee down. But I don't know, it just depends on what you want to do. I don't like the hidden fees, because I've booked Airbnbs before. I'm like, Okay, this is a pretty good price. And then you get to the checkout, and it's like, twice as much as you thought it was going to be because all those hidden fees. So I don't, I don't like that, but, but, yeah, you can use a service, but they're, they're expensive, and then they're going to charge even more for, like, a Sunday. So somebody's leaving on a Sunday and another guest is coming in that Sunday night, then you have to pay extra for that, so just, just gotta be careful. Just include it in your analysis. Okay, thank you

Unknown Speaker  1:07:14
patience. Did I see you had a question too?

Speaker 3  1:07:18
Yeah, I was raising my hand, but I kind of lowered it. I feel like I'm still a little confused with you said there's no taxes on the short term rentals, correct? But how does that well, how does that play out when it comes into your account, like all of this money coming in and, you know, Uncle Sam is always

Speaker 1  1:07:43
no there, there are still, I mean, there's taxes, but there are so many deductions. So you you deduct toilet paper, you deduct cleaning fees, you deduct laundry fees, you deduct furniture that you bought cleaning supplies, like all of that stuff gets deducted from your taxes, and then you have the stuff that's not not true expenses, which is the depreciation. So that depreciation is really not even a real thing. You know that depreciation, especially on the structure, is, you know, we all know that if you hold a property, a decent property, for you know 10 years, it's worth more in 10 years, as long as you take care of it than it is today. But by the tax code, it's worth less so that that deterioration, Phantom depreciation, that happens every year, you can deduct that. So you still have to pay taxes on the income, but there are so many deductions that it ends up the expenses become more than the income, so you don't pay any taxes because of that, even though they're not real, solid expenses. Does that make sense?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:55
Yeah, it does. Thank you. Okay, Keith,

Speaker 4  1:09:03
this is more of a, I guess, just a general business question. Going back to my the potential businesses looking at earlier this mock shop in California, again, I'm kind of going in blind. What else can I? What can I do to prepare for this potential meeting with the with the seller?

Speaker 1  1:09:19
Okay, yeah, so let me switch to the mentorship. Yep.
