Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane and money, Language Academy, mentorship, Q and A. This is Thursday, June 19, 2025 we just finished a business acquisition course, and just going to pick on one of the new members who asked a question earlier and brought up some stuff that is would be good for this section. Diane, I promised I would pick on you.

Speaker 2  00:25
Okay, so my couple questions going into this is, is one, I was really curious about how long it takes for you to put your systems in place, and what that looks like when you first acquire a business before you can start to step away. How long does it typically, average take you?

Speaker 1  00:46
Well, it's very situational. So, you know, there's, there's a couple of ways that you're gonna, you're you want absenteeism. The The first way is it already has a manager as an operator in place, and you can just day one step in there and make sure that everything switched over to your name, the bank accounts and, like, that's, that's your overhead there. Like, that's, that's what I'm, I'm going to be doing all day tomorrow, is all the software systems going my name, all the bank accounts that were connected to, all these things become my bank accounts, like, all that kind of stuff. That's, that's across the board. Every business you're ever going to buy, you have a day to two days of just configuring everything that's already there. You know, even if the there's real estate involved, you're switching the utilities, the electric, getting insurance, like that stuff. No matter what it is, you have to do that. But then after that, if they already have a manager in place, you're talking about, you know, someone that's a quality manager that's good, and they have bookkeeping, and they have all that stuff payroll, like, you can start stepping back right then, like, there's, there's no reason the the current one that that I'm dealing with, it, it's a GM. He's already good to go. He's been managing the business like I will be there, like I always try to be there, just to to make sure that that they know that I'm available. You know the managers, they have my my business phone number where they can contact me, especially the man, you know the managers, maybe not the day to day employees, but they should know that they can at least email or they can go through their manager and say they need to talk to me, whatever. But I want to at least be there. I don't want to just show up for a day or two and they never see me again. You know, even regular employees, I want them to know that I'm available, because there's a fear factor there when you, when you step in as the new owner, everybody is terrified that they're going to get fired. That's just what you think. Oh, there's a new, new owner, new management. They're going to clean house, they're going to bring their own people in, they're going to change everything. You know, we're screwed, and you have to, you have to really be cognizant of that and make sure that they feel comfortable, because it's a disaster if they feel like that, and they preemptively quit because they fear it like, Oh, I'm not gonna do that. I'm just gonna go ahead and quit and get another job. So you need to put in enough face time to so I would say the minimum is a week. You need to be there for a week. And that's realistic. You can get everything done that you need in a week, and then, you know, maybe you show up two days the next week. You know, show up in the, in the, I don't know, on, on the weekends, well, whatever, just for a little while. Because you need, you do need familiarity with the business, because how are you going to make changes if you don't understand what the current state is? And you'll learn through the due diligence, right? If you do hardcore due diligence, you understand the systems and everything. So that was my my next class in the business is going to be due diligence that people don't think about. You know, we talked about financials, but there's other things you you take, you know, like somebody comes in for to get their tire fixed, you should be able. You should, as as you're doing due diligence, follow an order and a customer's request all the way from the time that they they're acquired, whether they saw it on Google or whatever, all the way through to they get an estimate. The service gets done, they get their, you know, they check out the work, they pay for the invoice, they leave, and then they do like what you need to be able to know all the stages of that, no matter what the business is. So a lot of this stuff is, is answered for you on due diligence.

Unknown Speaker  04:43
So I don't know, did I answer your question, or did I just know it

Speaker 2  04:47
doesn't, it's beginning to answer. I mean, because these are all just questions that have been running through my mind of Exactly, I mean, I'm unfortunate a bit because I do work remote and so, so I've got some flexibility. I've got. Time I could pick up a call, like, you said, to to be that problem solver. Of, you know, hey, we had this come up today, or I saw a video, like, lawn mowing equipment or something, and you had to reach out and do, you know, like, be that problem solver. So I've got that flexibility. But I was thinking about that, like, so do I have to, like, step away from work for what, like, a month going, you know, like, so I was a little bit because you do have that process. So that was kind of one question. And then the other question I asked you at the beginning, you know, like you just covered people were talking about, how many, you know, evaluating, and then also that you're meeting with these owners. I've never ran a business, so that was the other thing. What do you say to somebody selling the thing that they put their heart and soul in that to somebody that's never ran a business, kind of interviewing tips or skills, or how did you first talk people installing you their businesses in the beginning when you were a newbie?

Speaker 1  05:53
Okay, that's a great question. So let me I want to go back to the remote thing, though, because so if you do work remotely, that is a huge benefit, because so even so it allows that's what I do too. So it allows me to, like today, the first thing I did was I brought monitors in to the office that my laptop will hook right to. So if I need to be in that business for longer, if something happens, if somebody, a key person leaves, or whatever. I'll be there all the time, and if I'm working at doing other stuff, dealing with other businesses, I'm in the office, I'll close the door, I'll put a little sign up, but I'm still there. You know that sign comes down, they can come in and ask me questions. I can deal I can put out fires. I can deal with whatever. Because, you know, when you work remotely, you can work anywhere in the world, as long as you have an internet connection. So that gives you a real leg up as far as being

Speaker 2  06:46
I hadn't thought about it from that angle, good point. Yeah, that was relatively close. Yeah, you're right.

Speaker 1  06:51
I mean, I work from Starbucks all the time. I work from just wherever and anywhere that's got a good lot of McDonald's. McDonald's and Starbucks have the best Wi Fi connections of most restaurants. So, yeah, you can work from anywhere. And you know, the people that you work with, they don't even know, they don't know where you're at. You have a everything blurred in the background, or a weird background up to where they can't see it, if, especially if it's like Google meet or something. So that that does, that does help a lot. So the and the other part of that question was, what do you say to an owner the first time you meet the owner? So that, in and of itself, meeting the owner can be a challenge. If there's a business broker that's throwing up the roadblocks at every stage, you're going to have to fight through those roadblocks to actually get to the owner. You're going to have to make sure you know you're that the business broker thinks that you can actually close on the business. So the business broker to fight through that they want to know. One, you can get financed. Two, you're competent. Three, that you're not going to leave them at the altar, which happens to them all the time. They take a business all the way to the last week, people get scared and they run away, you know. And I'll say this to everybody, too. No matter how many businesses that I acquire the last few days, there's questions that come up in your head, like, Oh, should I do this? Do I really need to do this? Why am I doing this? I shouldn't do this, you know. But you've done the you've you've done all of the due diligence, you know it's a good deal. You've analyzed every step. You've you've made all of the mitigation thing techniques that you can to make sure that you're not getting into a bad deal. But at the end of the day, you have to overcome the fear and get through it. So so once you get through that broker, and sometimes it might be for sale by owner, so you're going to deal with the an owner immediately, but most of the time, there's a broker, and when you first get to the owner, you just want to be very respectful. You don't want to you don't want to talk anything about numbers. You don't want to mention a number to begin with. You want to be very congratulatory on, you know, you know, you created this business. You've grown this business. You know, this business has been around for this many years. It's gone through the pandemic. It went through the financial crisis, whatever the situation is, you know, how did you how did you do that? How did you make it through all that? You know, what made you want to start this business. You know are, have you thought about, you know, what you're going to do if you do sell it? What are you going to do afterwards? Like, very personal building a rapport kind of stuff. Because you're going to, you're going to jump ahead of everyone else that comes in there, and just like, Okay, well, I'm sure I can improve this by doing this, and this needs this software, and I wouldn't do it like that, or, you know, they want to negotiate prices and things like that. You know, those everything that's a turn off. Yeah, that's what exactly, that's what private equity firms do. And, you know, the businesses at the levels that we're buying, we don't have to really deal with them a lot, because. We're, you know, we're buying small businesses. Private equity is like $10 million businesses generally, but sometimes they dip, and sometimes you'll have a group of VCs or something like that, that are going to want to buy a cluster of businesses. And that one just might fit it, but, but, yeah, just almost be, just be friendly at first. And what will happen is the the numbers will come up later. The owner will, will, will be asking you a lot of questions. So, you know, it's not like real estate, where you walk in on day, you know, and the broker or the agent is like, Oh, this is great. You know, you're going to love this. If you buy this, you get you know, they're trying to make you buy it. It's the exact opposite. You're selling yourself to the owner, that you're competent, that you can not tank their business soon as you get in there, because they're worried about their employees, their number one concern is the money that they're not selling for the right price. And if they've hired a broker. The broker should have assuaged those fears that, you know, that they're priced right by their financials, and that the second thing is their employees, you know, if it's a baby boomer, and they've been around for 2030, years, they've had people working for them for 1015, 20 years, right alongside, you know, the one I'm buying right now, there's a guy there's been working there for 23 years, 23 years, and he was very concerned that he, you know, that he would get fired because he's an old school guy. And I'm like, No, that's not what that's not what we're doing. But you have to, you have to know that, that you're making sure that the seller is comfortable and not the other way around.

Speaker 2  11:46
What else did you do to gain more? You know, just general business confidence. Whether you know books, you read, things you did, yeah, what did you do there? Yeah.

Speaker 1  11:56
You can also, if it's local, you can talk about other businesses in the area, you know you can without even getting in the specific numbers. You know you can know what the competition is. And so a few blocks from this place is a garage called, it's called Walters or something, right? Does the same type of repairs. And I'm like, so I didn't say, you know, is Walters your biggest competitor? Or they are they, you know, making more revenue than you are. I was like, you know, how have you consistently beat Walters? You know, it looks like you're, you're eating their lunch. How'd you do that? You right? So, yeah, it's open ended, and it whether it's true or not, it starts them talking about the competition, and then also it shows that you know enough about the local market that you have done the research, and you at least are aware of what's going on. Because it can be a hurdle when you go in and you know, you don't, you're, you're not an expert in that field, you know, if you're going into buy a property management company, and you're not a realtor, you're not a house flipper, you're not someone who has a bunch of real estate, you have to overcome that, and you overcome that during the conversation, showing that you, even though you haven't specifically done it, you've done your own research. So just like with a job interview, you're successful with a job interview. If you go you read everything on the website for that company. You know what that company does. You know their day to day operations the best you can, and then you can speak intelligently to the people that matter about it. It's the same situation. Wow.

Speaker 2  13:36
Valid point. Yeah, okay, thank you. Thank

Speaker 1  13:40
you. But yeah, you know the numbers. Just remember that the numbers will come out eventually. And if you hold out, the owner will start asking numbers, you know, they'll want to know, they'll ask something about, you know, are you? Are you pre approved, you know, and that's when you can bring it up. Yeah, matter of fact, I am, I have, you know, SBA pre approval, or I'm going through this lender I've already discussed, you know, I sent the financials to my lender, and they think it's, you know, that shouldn't be a problem to get funded. You know, that will always come out. You don't have to rush it now, maybe at the very end of it, you could throw it out there. But if it's a broker, the broker's already asked you the already asked you those questions they're going to ask you. You know, there's no foreplay with a broker. They're right to the to the nasty, right to all those questions immediately. Do you have money? Are you going to take it to the finish line? Are you just a tire kicker, like they're going to be there and sometimes in a real jerky fashion, and other times with, you know, with more tact, it just depends on the broker.

Speaker 2  14:48
Do business loans work the same as like when you're buying a house like you just when you said pre approval, made me think, you know how something you go, you get pre approval. You go out shopping so you can, it's

Speaker 1  14:57
nothing you can. You can get pre. Approval through like the SBA, and then what they'll do is they're not going to vet the deal at all. They're going to vet your personal financial situation, where you know what your credit score is, do you have bankruptcies, what's your income, things like that, to where you know you would they'll say something like, you'll be a good candidate for the SBA. As far as, like, using a regular bank. I've never gotten pre approved from a regular bank without having the financials, like, just a blanket approval, like you get in real estate, where, if you're house hunting, you go to a bank and you're like, what, what house can I buy? You know, what's my range buy my income? It's not like that, because it's so dependent upon the business that you're buying now, the amount of money you can bring is for a down payment. That's, that's a big deal. You know, usually your range is better than the bank, but so which, if you reach out and you get the financials, and then you get the financials, then that's when I'll go, I'll just email them to my lender, and I'll say, hey, what do you think of this? You know, is this pretty easily fundable? And they'll do the same numbers that we do, the same stuff that's on the spreadsheet to where they'll, you know, get the DSCR you you already know. You'll have enough information to know if it's fundable way before you ever even talk to a lender. Because it's, it's the same process every time.

Speaker 2  16:24
Okay, okay, thank you, and thank you everyone for letting the newbie take it.

Speaker 1  16:32
Just go over this. It's good practice for everybody. I think,

Unknown Speaker  16:41
um, what's everybody else got going on? Any questions? Hey, Joe,

Unknown Speaker  16:48
what's up, man, I got a question. I

Speaker 3  16:51
think this is a great class. First of all, like, thinking about what you love to do with some of that. So, I mean, I know previously, I was thinking about, like, landscaping, and I was like, God, if I had to be land like, for whatever reason I had to get on a lawn mower, I would not be happy. Anyways, there's other options out there. I'm sure maybe, like cleaning services, doesn't matter. So my question is, okay, so with my credit score, I'm still working with nesty to get it back up. You know, as it dropped, it's going back up now that we're getting a school loan thing situated. So it's, it's, it just needs another billing cycle to actually recycle out, and it should be back up soon. Anyways, so, but during this time, I was thinking, you know, what is a good work around on this? You know, maybe this is a good thing to happen this way. But anyways, I was like, what if I could get my mom to go on a business with me, because she has an 800 plus credit score and she has a personal credit card of, like, $25,000 and it's just like, you know as to where mine, you know, when it's at its best, it's over 720 I only got a credit card or two for 4000 bucks. I've never really gotten far with it. But anyways, my mom ate 25 credit score. $25,000 credit card is like, so I did talk to her about it last week. She was kind of like, on the fence. Wasn't really into it that much. But is there any way like I can get her on the business until I get funding and I can kick her out of the business.

Speaker 1  18:26
Yeah, I mean, really, you can. So, so here, here's how you could structure that deal. Now, you're both gonna have to be on the loan, at least initially. You're gonna have to be on that loan. And she, she's gonna, I don't think there's a way that she, she wouldn't be personally guaranteeing the loan throughout the lifetime of the loan, but you could, you could have it to where, initially, she's the only member of the LLC, and you're the manager, and, you know, you both sign up for the loan, and then you can swap those roles, or take her off as a member, you know, where she doesn't have any personal liability other than The loan itself, but, but, you know, she's, there's no way without refinancing that you could, just to my knowledge, that you can just take her off the loan, you know, just because it's, it's part of it, yeah, I don't, she would have to sell it to You, or you'd have to refinance in a different LLC structure. Okay? Because, because, when you get, you get a loan, a commercial loan, under an LLC for a business like this, you're signing your name. It's going to be your name, and even if you're, you know, you're entering into a financial agreement, you know, personally, with the bank under your name. So it's still a thing. There are ways, you know, there are ways that huge companies do that, you know, but an LLC that doesn't have a big financial history, and you just simply formed it for this Acqui. Position, you're personally guaranteeing that.

Speaker 3  20:03
Okay, I was thinking maybe if the like, even for business credit cards, the loans and etc, if it was going to the LLC, no matter who was on it, I don't know if that was No,

Speaker 1  20:13
that's a, yeah, it's a different situation that that's where they use. You know, you're still personally guaranteeing those credit cards too, but, but when it, you know, it's only going to affect the credit score of the LLC, and not your personal credit after you, after you get it, you know, but, but, yeah, you're always on the hook for those loans if you sign those papers.

Speaker 3  20:32
All right, no matter what, okay, because that was her. That was her thing. Was like, well, she doesn't want to be responsible for nothing, but, you know, it's just like, maybe there's a workaround. So, well,

Speaker 1  20:41
I mean, it's financially responsible, or time responsible to where she would have to do stuff with the business.

Speaker 3  20:48
Oh, she wouldn't do anything. I said I would take care of it all,

Speaker 1  20:51
you know. So she just doesn't want to be financially responsible, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  20:55
Because, I mean, she's just living off her Social Security or whatever, but she has an amazing credit scores. Like, come on, Mom, you don't have no inheritance. Give me your credit

Unknown Speaker  21:04
score. Well, let's capital stack. Mom, let's make

Unknown Speaker  21:07
this happen. Yes, leave a legacy. Mom,

Speaker 3  21:11
I don't know, man, my mom's pretty tough, like, she's 72 or 73 but I think she's gotten her 10 or more years in her so, I mean, she's, she's relentless. So, I mean, but, yeah, but I'm trying to get her on board. It's like, credit score is gold, right now, Mom, come on. So alright, well, I wanted to get your opinion on that. So all right, we're in it, no matter what it sounds like. Yeah.

Speaker 1  21:33
Now, if it were, if we were the opposite, and you had a good credit score, but maybe you couldn't bring a down payment, you know, she couldn't. You could do a side thing where she invested in the business, and you pay back the down payment, and then she's not, she's not on the hook, because it'd be just like, you know, she, she would just give you that without, like, an official lien. You just have a contract, you know. You could even, you know, have a contract on the side to make sure it's all legitimate. But how would anyone ever know that you have that contract? It's not reported to any financial institution. It's a one person to one person contract. So, yeah, the opposite could be, you know, she, she wanted to loan you money for a down payment, but you had the credit score, and you could get the loan and, you know, you could do that and pay it back. You know, that's, that's an angel investor, essentially.

Speaker 3  22:17
Oh, true. Man, yeah, it sounds, no matter what, no matter where we go around it, she's still responsible for the loan or the credit card or anything. So, yeah, anyways, thought I'd ask, what's

Unknown Speaker  22:30
your credit score? Right now? How close are you? Well,

Speaker 3  22:33
it went up another 40 points, and so, yeah, and so we, you know, I was talking to nesting. We're trying to figure it out. I talked to Equifax. I think it was earlier this week. I had a phone with them as last week, rather, and then so I have three school loans that went, you know, out of date or not out of date, but they went on to my credit, court credit for at the same time. So I called Equifax this past week, because we've been working on for the past month, and they said only two are here. I don't know what you meant by three, and so one of them got deleted. And so it might be the school lender itself said they're going to update all the records, so maybe they're getting updated and getting deleted. And so one's gone. So, I mean, there's two left. So I mean, it might just flesh out in the next month on the next cycle, and maybe back up another 100 points, because it was 747, 50 on a couple of them, and it was just like, I woke up next morning, went down 118 points, just like that. I was like, why? And so I was like, dude. I was like, at the finish line right now I, you know, had nesty Or getting funding, or you were talking about it and everything. So all I could ever do is just say, hey, it's good. This happened was just make something good out of it. Yeah, all I can really do. So maybe it's just gives me more time, you know, more time to learn things. Maybe I bought a landscaping business by now, and I didn't want it.

Unknown Speaker  24:06
Who knows? I was supposed to see this class first, far behind anything.

Speaker 1  24:09
Yeah, you can get your, your DJing company. Yeah, I was talking about

Speaker 3  24:13
that too. That's another thing too. That's, that's another good one. So build that entertainment business.

Speaker 1  24:18
Perhaps Ernie put some good stuff in the in the chat. So the SBA seven, a loan, a down payment, can be gifted from close family members. The SBA allows for this, but requires documentation to prove it. So, so, yeah, you can just get a gift, just like you can use home equity, you know, and he lock for a down payment. But if you were to get a loan with paperwork from your mom, you would have to just do that around you know that couldn't be an official thing, or they would deny you for sure. So it's just like capital stacking, same thing, seizing the funds. Do it the right way, and then you'd be okay. But yeah,

Unknown Speaker  24:58
yeah, definitely. Thanks for.

Speaker 3  25:00
We're on our way. Awesome. And last note, I didn't start working on that list for you of businesses in your area.

Speaker 1  25:09
Okay, awesome. Thank you. There you go. There's the networking thing. And you want to talk? Talk about that, to let everybody know, working on

Speaker 3  25:15
Okay, yeah, I could talk really fast. Okay. So one thing, I am super blessed to have this amazing assistant that I found in Malawi, and so, like, I pay, she's helped me out with email marketing and some of that so, but we got this software called Apollo, and what Apollo does is, like, 59 bucks or whatever, but it's it'll find business owners for you, like con like contacts or phone numbers, you know, whatever, emails, and you can narrow down, like the like, what kind of business it is and whatever. And so I did mechanics for you. I did restaurants for my loan broker, stuff that I'm still working on. And so we just got it yesterday. I'm still getting good at the filters. The filters the filters are amazing. Like you can literally filter out by their revenue, and just like their location, obviously, what kind you know, restaurant, whatever, what kind of kind of industry they're in. And it just goes on and on, these crazy good filters. And so just like, it's called Apollo 59 bucks for, I think it was like 2500

Unknown Speaker  26:27
I mean, you can, you can, that's how many,

Speaker 3  26:30
how many contacts you can export. So, I mean, there might be 10,000 businesses you find, or the more you narrow it down, obviously, the less it is. But, but we, you know, exported 2000 restaurants today. So, I mean, you know, just like that fit within the criteria of what we're looking for. So, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  26:49
is that a month? Is that how it works?

Speaker 3  26:52
20 is 2500 contacts for $59 Yeah. And you can, like, you just export it, and then we're using a software called instantly. I mean, Apollo can do all of this. I don't know why we're doing two different softwares. It's just recommended from one of my AI people. Anyways, there's another software called instantly, which is an AI email sender, and it'll rewrite emails for you and make them all kind of like, I don't wanna say original, but they'll spend the email so that way you're not sending out the same email 100 times a day, because that's what spam is. So, but the AI will rewrite it so it's more personal. So we're using Apollo to get the business contacts, and we're using instantly AI to send the emails. So we're setting that all up right now and then, but, but, yeah, but yeah, the go back to the Apollo, the filters. There's even a filters for, like, what businesses are rapidly growing right now. I don't know how it knows that, or whatever, but like, out of like, you know, 11,000 restaurants, then the more and more we narrowed it down, like it was just like, and people who want, who are looking for business loans, it's just like, it's so crazy. The filters are just incredible. So just like, I just got it yesterday. I've only messed with it a few times, but I just kept, you know, the more you do it, the more you discover new things. So Apollo and instantly AI. So, I mean, it's just fun to look at. So, I mean, I like to, like spying, I don't know, like learning, it's like, What's going on over here. So, I mean, but yeah, the revenue thing was pretty cool. And, but yeah, it gives you all the business owners names, you know, contacts, emails, phone numbers, and so, yeah, it's super mind blowing stuff. So didn't expect that to happen when I got it honestly, okay, yeah, super cool, yeah. So we'll see what we can do for you. I'm doing it just for fun because I'm also like, the loan broker stuff. I went to. I mean, I want to stop talking a second, but on Monday I went to, but on Monday I went to a business seminar with a business coach called JT Fox. I don't know if you know who he is, or seen around, or whatever, but I bought him for a few years. But he had a free seminar in Atlanta. He was talking about how he gets leads for free using AI and stuff like that. So I made the trip to go watch the seminar and learn some things. I did buy his, his AI version of chat GPT, which will analyze business deals, or in like, you know, like, you know, all kinds of, you know, like, analyze all their financials. So if I were to pull, like, get some tax returns and all this other stuff, I could literally put it into his chat GPT. It'll analyze everything. So that's interesting. You know, met some people. I forgot where I was going to go with this, but, but, yeah, just learning a lot more stuff. And I don't know if you can refresh my memory, what was I going with this? You know, I went on a tangent for a second. I don't know what the JT Fox. I got this new. AI, they'll analyze business deals and like other financials and stuff of that. So that's kind of cool, but it's basically like a business coach and everything. So yeah, just another spin on chat. GBT. Bad. A good time with it. I'm gonna, I don't remember what I was gonna say, but that's it. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right. Anybody

Unknown Speaker  30:29
else? Have any questions?

Speaker 1  30:32
You have any I know, I know Keith's working on wrangling an owner.

Speaker 4  30:38
Yeah, to ask you, should I just send a letter of intent to that guy, like mail it

Speaker 1  30:42
to him. Good. It can't hurt. Financials for the business, did I What have you seen financials for it yet?

Speaker 5  30:50
Yeah, a little bit.

Speaker 1  30:53
Okay, so enough, enough to where you have a ballpark that it's it meets your criteria, right? Yeah.

Speaker 4  31:00
I mean, the monthly cash flow, the rent, gross revenue, and then the price, and it was established 15 years ago.

Speaker 1  31:10
Okay, so, I mean, you know, the great thing about an LOI, especially if you do it yourself, and you're not going to an attorney, and, you know, spending a bunch of money on it, you just, you can just put it out there. And, you know, if, if it ends up being a crap business, then, you know, you just back out and there's no harm, no foul. You don't put anything in. So, yeah, why not? I mean, it'll show that you're serious. Just send them one, yeah, or, or just his address, or what?

Speaker 4  31:40
Yeah, I can't find a zine. I mean, I found his home address on true people search because I use a lot for home. I used a lot for what's gonna call, for wholesaling. So I was, I was gonna send it there, because I, I called the business last week and like I told you, he's not the owner, the manager said he's never there. So I don't even think there's a point in sending it to him, to the business, probably just send to his home address and continue to keep calling us, okay, yeah,

Speaker 1  32:10
at this point, if he's if he's not responding, it can't hurt, right? Yeah, it can't hurt.

Speaker 4  32:16
I saw the letter of intent on the in the Google Docs. I mean, I could just use that and just obviously add in my numbers.

Speaker 1  32:24
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And, you know, one thing that's in that, that loi Pat template, right there, is a lack of earnest money. Okay, you know there I purposely Don't, don't offer earnest money in situations like this, because who knows what you're getting into. Now, if you have financials and it's highly competitive, and you want them to know you're serious, then maybe you know you add earnest money to it. But in situation like this, you just send it out.

Speaker 4  32:53
Okay, I do want to I like home service businesses. I think I've expressed that to before, and I was looking at maybe, like, getting a potentially going also after an electrical contracting business. The reason say that is home service. They, they, they generate a lot of revenue. And after doing electric, not that I'm a licensed electrician, but doing work on my own home, I actually, actually enjoy doing electric work. Now, I don't know what my I don't know if, like, I can, I found one not too far from where I live. I don't know if I can make that absentee owner or not, or I guess I would have to hire someone who's licensed to run it for me. Is that something realistic you think? Or should the business already have someone managing it?

Speaker 1  33:36
No, it wouldn't necessarily have to have somebody managing it. Just has to have somebody capable of managing, ideally. But like, have you looked at the regulations in your state to make sure that you can, can actually own that?

Unknown Speaker  33:48
No, I have not actually. It's a really good question. Yeah, that that

Speaker 1  33:51
would be the first first stage would be, because every state is different when it comes to that. Like, California is really restrictive. Alabama's not, you know, it's like, it just depends what you're trying to do. So most, most places, you just have to have somebody that's licensed in the business. And it's, it's because of, like, doing bids on new jobs, and sometimes it's even dependent upon the county and the city that it's in. I found that plumbing in particular is like that, you know, from county to county in in my state, like, it's vastly different. You can go to a more rural county and they don't care, like you doesn't really matter what your certifications are, you know, or you're a union plumber, or anything like, or you have one on staff, they don't care. But, you know, going to the bigger cities, and, yeah, it takes years to actually become a plumber that can bid jobs, you know. So just, um, look into that for sure. I mean, you can, you can do a rudimentary search through chat, GPT and, like, what? What's required if I want to own an electrician company in my state? What do I need? And that'll give you an idea, and it'll, it'll cite the sources, and then you can track those sources down and see, was that a legitimate source? Is that really what it said? You know, you always have to double check. Yeah, research something from chat GPT. But, yeah, I think that's, that's a good place to start.

Speaker 4  35:18
I think me, actually, I just asked chat to be too. But let me just specify, I think I can in California. Yeah, I just, I would need to hire looks like a manager.

Speaker 1  35:32
There you go. Got it? Okay, yeah, and there might be somebody there that's been working there for 10 years that's ready to be that manager, you know, just have to figure that out. And you know, that's a conversation that you can have later on with the owner, if you like, if the financials are good and everything else is working out. And you can just kind of meet the employees and figure that out like the owner knows if somebody's capable or if they're not, and whether they tell you or not is a different story, but They might

Unknown Speaker  36:05
Okay, cool. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  36:17
Anybody else? Anything? Cooking? No.

Speaker 1  36:28
Okay, yeah, in the summertime, right now, I figure we're probably not going to have a lot of class participants, because it's nice and it's June in the winter, everybody will be here. That's cool. That's cool, so I'm okay. Well, we'll probably go ahead and shut this off.
