Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. It is Thursday, October 2, 2025 My name is Shane. This is the money Language Academy, and we're going to start the kind of the live class portion. What I wanted to talk about tonight is more of like a kind of an impromptu real estate session where we go through and we I want to find some rental properties, analyze those rental properties live, and just show you kind of my process and what I consider to be a good deal versus a bad deal, the type of properties I look for. Because I think right now the the interest rates are coming down, um, there's more, more properties going on the market. And you know this, no matter what you want to invest in, there is a season and a time for every type of of investment. One goes down, another one comes up. It just, it just kind of ebbs and flows. There's always something that is a good investment. I don't care if it's in a bad economy, it's a good economy, recession, whatever. There's ways to do stocks and bet on, you know, the stock market crashing like whatever there's there are so many investment possibilities, if you understand how things work. And I think right now might be a time to look back into real estate, because things are changing. We need the rates to come down a little bit more, but it's easy to get loans right now and rates are coming down, so that's kind of what I wanted to do tonight, share my screen here.

Unknown Speaker  01:41
Okay, so

Speaker 1  01:44
let's first. I'll just keep it really simple, right? I prefer to use Zillow to find the properties. I mean, there are so many, there's Zillow Redfin. Those are like my number one and number two Zillow is the user interface is really easy to use. It's easy to create a search, it's easy to save that search, get notifications. What I like about Redfin, let's go to Redfin is red fin is very intuitive on the searches, and it will it will give you quicker updates when something new comes online. And it just seems like the notifications and the way that it locates properties and links them to you is a little smarter than Zillow, but the interface isn't quite as easy to use, so I tend to use Zillow primarily, and then if I get some good updates from Redfin, generally, I'll just take those updates and pipe them into Zillow, and it really helps. And then the other one is prop wire. So prop stream is the paid one that you can use. Prop stream will allow you to find foreclosures, give you, like, real time estimates on, like, how much equity someone has in their home. Maybe they're really underwater on their home. They're not making payments, things like that. Prop stream is, is really good for that, but it's, it's a paid platform. You have to put quite a bit of money into it. And on the flip side, prop wire is a free version of it, but the data isn't quite as fresh. So you could get by with using prop wire, but you kind of need to use all these things together. So I just picked Arkansas. I thought we would start there and kind of show you, like generally what I'm what I'm looking for, right? So I don't care about the the price, necessarily, the beds and the baths, I'm generally. So I've done the single families. I've done duplexes, triplexes, four plexes, six plexes, you know, larger than that. And I think right now, I would not want anything less than a four Plex. I really love four plexes because four Plex you can finance with a traditional residential home loan. You don't have to get a commercial loan. Your comps are based on residential home prices and other four plexes. It's like skirting that line where you're diversified to where, if one tenant leaves or stops paying, or whatever, if you found a good deal, those other three, you're still paying the mortgage. They're still paying all the expenses you're not really, you know, beholden to one tenant or two tenants or three tenants, you're, you're pretty much. It's just seems like a safer investment. Okay, so generally, what I do is I'll deselect all these and I'll put multifamily see what we got here. And okay, so I really don't want new construction, because you're not going to find a good deal. There foreclosures are all right, auctions, not so much. Auctions, you have to have cash. Usually you're not going to finance an auction. You have to bring cash and verify your funds, go to the courthouse or go to an auction site. And it's just not feasible. You know, for most people that are trying to get into the real estate coming soon is cool, accepting backup offers, yeah, but I don't ever want to if something's already pending or under contract. Why, even, you know, tempt yourself with those. It's a done deal.

Unknown Speaker  05:34
Okay? Um,

Unknown Speaker  05:38
the rest of stuff, I don't really care. Let's see what we got.

Speaker 1  05:43
Okay, let's zoom in. Little Rock is probably going to be our best bet. So what do we have now? You could put a price in here. Let's, let's do that. Let's put a price in.

Speaker 2  05:53
Shane, can I just say all my rental properties are in Arkansas, and if you find a great deal on this call, I will definitely lock it down.

Speaker 1  06:01
Okay, nice, nice. Okay, so let's say the minimum. Let's pick 200 okay, because it's a four Plex that we're looking for. It's probably not going to be, you know, less than 2000 or 200,000 so we'll go two to 500 see what we got. Okay, so there's a few what we got here. Okay? Now, something that's very important is parking right? What I've found with my multi families, if you don't have a dedicated parking lot, people don't, they don't want to park on the street. For the most part, it attracts a tenant that generally, that maybe doesn't have a car, which you don't want that if they can't afford a car. I mean, unless you're in like in the heart of a city like New York, Chicago, where people are biking around, something like that. But little rock isn't quite like that. I would think that most people still have cars in Little Rock, so I would want to see a dedicated parking lot. So this would kind of be a red flag, not a deal breaker, but a red flag. So this is a four Plex, okay? It's built in 1940 sold as is this gym, okay? So it's one bedroom, one bath apartments, all right,

Unknown Speaker  07:30
so let's look at the pictures here, see what we got.

Speaker 1  07:34
So it's definitely older, but it doesn't look too bad. Hardwood. Looks like it's been restored. Not a lot of pictures, but it's $250,000 and it's 3180 square feet. Okay, so what I do in this situation is I'm going to get the first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to get this address, and I'm going to find out what rent is should be in this area for that address. Okay, so I'm going to go to I like bigger pockets. That's my favorite. Bigger pockets is a platform that you could find out anything you need to know about real estate. You can go on the forums. You can ask questions, generally, any question that you're going to ask, somebody has already asked it, and there's a ton of answers out there from real estate agents, property managers, other real estate investors, lenders, you name it. This is where I originally found my real estate accountant that was able to handle the short term rental loophole and all that stuff is bigger pockets. I do pay for the pro membership, and the reason why I pay for that is because you get all of these perks for the analyzed deals, right? So you get the Rental Property Calculator, the rehab estimator, the rent estimator, short term rental estimator, like all kinds of stuff, and you get a free membership to rent ready. Rent ready is a tenant portal where tenants, you can do leases, onboard tenants, they can pay their rent like it's, it's a full service rental portal. Okay, so what I'm going to do first is I'm going to see what rent should be in that area. So we'll go to rent estimator. I will enter the address in there. It is boom

Unknown Speaker  09:29
structure type four Plex, see

Unknown Speaker  09:33
what it comes up with.

Speaker 1  09:36
Okay, so this says the median is about 1000 a month. Now the confidence is low on this. So whenever you see the confidence low, that means it doesn't have a lot of data to compare to. So if you look at some of the other ones, you know, it's a one bedroom, one bath. There's 895, right there, very close to it. And that was what 3100 Square feet. So this is comparable. Here's one for 725, 965, so just to be safe, I'll kind of take an average right here. We'll just call it 900 that seems like a like a safe number. Okay, so we could probably get 900 for each of these apartments. Okay, so now let's go to the rental property, calculator,

Unknown Speaker  10:26
Star Report.

Speaker 1  10:30
Now you don't have to use this fancy one if you don't want to pay for the pro package. There's another one you can use this one, which is free. It does basically the same stuff on calculator.net, and then also, I uploaded a spreadsheet today to the resource bundle where you can just pull that spreadsheet down, plug the numbers in, get all the fancy equations and the same stuff that we're going to see tonight. But I'm kind of lazy and I like this one, so you can put the the address in here, it will find it. Now. What were they asking for that? It was 250,000 closing costs. Let's put that at about 2500 I usually go about 1%

Unknown Speaker  11:23
or 10% I mean,

Speaker 1  11:26
just to be safe, I always, I always overly inflate the expenses and put less on the, you know, the profit and the rent and stuff like that, because you want to always have wiggle room. Okay, it doesn't look like we'll need any rehab. It looks all right.

Unknown Speaker  11:44
So the down payment, a down payment on a $250,000

Speaker 1  11:48
property, you're going to generally have to bring 25% so so

Unknown Speaker  12:03
that's going to be 62,500,

Speaker 1  12:12
interest rate. Now the regular residential rates are about one point less than an investment. If you're planning on House hacking, all these numbers change. Which house hacking means that you're going to buy a property, you're going to live in one of the units, and you're going to rent the other units out. If you do that, you qualify for FHA. You qualify for a bunch of different programs where you can bring this down payment way down. Instead of paying 25% you can bring this down payment to about 5% but that means that you have to stay in the in the unit for at least a year. But what a lot of people do is they'll they'll house hack, they'll get a four Plex, or duplex or whatever. You stay in one unit for a year. You rehab that while you're in it. If you go to the next unit, rent out the one you were just in, and you just do that in a in a rotation, right? And then after, at the end of that, you have a nice place that you've increased the equity, and increase the equity just by inflating what it's worth. And you can then rent out all four and then you can move, but you have to stay in it at least a year. Otherwise it's, it's kind of, I don't know. You can get in trouble. I haven't, no, I don't know of anybody that's actually gotten in trouble for that. Some people just say they're going to live in there and they leave anyway. But, you know, do that at your own risk. So let's say approximately seven that's, we're somewhere in there on those rates, 30 years, no points. So gross monthly income. So we said 900 and it's a four Plex, right?

Unknown Speaker  13:52
So that's easy math here.

Unknown Speaker  13:56
3600 a month. Oops.

Speaker 1  14:04
Now, expenses, property taxes, you can usually find that in Zillow, if you scroll down to the bottom, come on. I'm Come on. Okay, right here, annual tax amount, 2385, and

Unknown Speaker  14:37
that's usually pretty accurate on Zillow.

Unknown Speaker  14:45
Annual insurance.

Speaker 1  14:49
Insurance is a little bit tougher. I just know what I pay for my four plexes, and I kind of just use that same value so you can something like this, just to be safe, I would put it 300 100 per month. That's probably more than you're going to pay. But just to be safe, you want to inflate those numbers. Okay, now, repairs and maintenance 5% I always put all these at 5% capital expenditures, which that's going to be any, any big maintenance items like your, I don't know your HVAC, water heater, um, that, that big kind of stuff that takes 1000s of dollars to fix vacancy. I'm going to put that at 5% too, in case you're in between tenants. One's leaving, and you got to, you know, clean it up and list it and get another one in there, and then management fees. That's up to you. If you're going to do out of state or you don't want to deal with it yourself. Management fees are going to be about 10% okay, electricity, I'm going to have them pay the electricity, the gas, the water and sewer, I generally pay. So you would have to do some research in Little Rock and C, I would say so four apartments, about $75 a piece. So we'll call that 300 no HOA garbage. That's going to be about 125

Unknown Speaker  16:12
for a big dumpster.

Speaker 1  16:15
See what we got. Okay, so for your investment, you would get about $528 a month in cash flow. Now just realize, though, that this is the absolute safe number, right? Because we put in in case there's capex, in case there's vacancies, in case there's, you know, all you know, maintenance and regular repairs too. So your cash on cash ROI is about 9.76 this is okay. But, I mean, think about it, you put $62,000 down to earn six basically, what $6,500 a year. So it's not a great return on your investment, because we're so used to looking at businesses, but it's not bad. It's not bad. Now, what I love about this analyzer is you can tweak these numbers. Okay, so if you think you can get a little more rent, you can drag that up and see what that's going to be. If you think maybe you can rehab it a little bit and get $1,200 a month per apartment. You can, you can pull that up, if you can negotiate the price down to maybe 225,

Unknown Speaker  17:36
right? That changes things. Put you up at 650, um.

Speaker 1  17:42
If you're going to self manage, boom, you drag that down. What's that take it to look at that takes it to $1,000 a month. Now that's that's a different story. Okay, I self manage, or have my property management company manage the properties for me. That's why I don't like doing out of state. I want to keep everything close to me, um, but, yeah, so what if you were to house hack this? Let's think about that. If you were to house hack this, you could probably get about a point less. Okay, um, you're going to bring your down payment down. They don't have down payment on here, do they?

Unknown Speaker  18:26
No, okay, so let's go tweak this. Let's say you're gonna house hack.

Speaker 2  18:32
It's under loan amount would be, yeah, your loan amount would just be higher.

Speaker 1  18:39
Okay, so let's say 5% if you're going to hack this six but you're not going to get that income right, so you're going to be at 2700

Unknown Speaker  18:53
per month. So what's that do for us?

Speaker 1  18:59
Oh, wait a minute, I missed the management fees. No management fees. Okay, so it's not a great deal, right? If you're going to house hack, it's a great it's a decent deal if you're going to put a big down payment, but otherwise, it's not a good deal. But that's, that's the process, right there. You're, you're tweaking these numbers, you're seeing what you can do. So where would this be a good deal? What? What is the purchase price that makes this a good deal? Is it a good deal at 225, I uh, not really, you know. But if you're willing to do the work and stay there for a year and rehab those apartments, maybe, but, yeah, this is, this is how real estate is. It's kind of a slow. Burn. It's not instant cash flow like a business, but it's a hard asset that allows you to get creative with financing, to put less money down in certain situations if you're willing to sacrifice. I mean, you could even, you know, sleep on the couch and rent the unit that you're actually going to live in. There are people that do that, that are willing to make those kind of sacrifices. Me, my wife would absolutely kill me if I even said some anything about House hacking. She's no, we're too bougie at this point. Those days are over, but early days, yeah, absolutely it's like, if you're hungry and you want to make it happen, you can make those decisions. So let's see if we can find another one real fast. Let's see what we can find that wasn't a great deal. The family multifamily. Let's try to try to find a bigger one. Okay, here we go. What is this one? It's a four Plex. It's nice. This is a nice looking four Plex. You can probably get a lot better rent from this one. So let's see what the rental estimator says. Look at the pictures real fast. Yeah, nice hardwood, freshly painted. So I can already tell you, this is nice enough that you're not going to have a lot of cash flow with real estate, the Class B, Class A properties, you don't get a lot of cash flow. You're getting those because they're going to appreciate and in 10 years, they're worth way more than they are now. If you're looking for cash flow, you're going to get Class C and Class D properties in bad neighborhoods, they're not going to appreciate very much. They're going to be a headache, but the rents that you command every single month are going to be much higher than what you're paying. So that's your trade off. And I've done both. I've done the section eights in in bad neighborhoods and rough, rough properties. And on paper, it seems great, like, Okay, I'll get this. I'll do some minor rehab to it. I'll be able to get a tenant quickly. The the government's going to pay me. Yeah, it all sounds great, but we had situations where there was 10 people living in a two bedroom apartment. We had situations where it was holes in the wall, they were one time. So we had these heaters, like on the on the wall, and in the kitchen, their kids had put, like a bunch of peas into the heater, and it just, it reeked and stunk in there, like it was just, it was every week was some kind of new problem that that was happening with those section eights. So I got away from the section eights, I started looking at Class B and A properties, and the cash flow was less, but in the long run, it was better, because they appreciate and if you stay in one for five or 10 years, you have less hassle, better tenants that have more money, they can pay their rent, and after 10 years, it's going to be worth, you know, upwards of 50% more than what you paid for it. And the tenants the whole time have paid down that mortgage, you know, you built equity in it. So that's where I'm at now, I would, I would prefer to do that. So let's, let's see what this is. This is a nicer one. Let's just go ahead and analyze that. Okay, so we're going to go to the rent estimator first.

Unknown Speaker  23:41
That's it, fourplex.

Speaker 1  23:54
Wow, only 850 so this is definitely a bad we don't even have to go any further because the last one was 900 so this is not a good Deal. Okay, let's find something else.

Unknown Speaker  24:19
Duplex. Check it out.

Speaker 1  24:44
What I found in my area is that duplexes aren't really working right now, so I'm skeptical if this will work, but we'll see.

Unknown Speaker  24:53
Okay, so same, about 900

Unknown Speaker  24:57
so let's analyze this one fully.

Unknown Speaker  25:06
We'll go to the Rental Property Calculator, property in

Unknown Speaker  25:13
Okay, we got here.

Unknown Speaker  25:17
We have 195,500

Unknown Speaker  25:37
No, so let's call that 1900 I

Unknown Speaker  25:43
didn't really look like I need a rehab.

Speaker 1  25:46
So we'll go 20% that's the minimum you're going to put on an investment property.

Unknown Speaker  25:52
Interest Rate seven

Unknown Speaker  25:55
monthly incomes can be 1800 oops, I'm property taxes.

Unknown Speaker  26:14
589, one,

Unknown Speaker  26:23
insurance can be much cheaper.

Speaker 1  26:29
Again, 5% 5% 5% 10 if you want to do that, no electric, no gas, water and sewer, two of them, probably $90

Unknown Speaker  26:47
garbage, about 7520

Speaker 1  26:54
bucks a month. This is what I'm seeing on duplexes in my area as well. It's like, why would you put in that much money for a duplex unless, unless you have already made your money, and you're trying to protect that cash flow with tax deferral, right? It's a tax avoidance strategy. But if you're looking for monthly cash flow, this is not the answer.

Speaker 2  27:24
But, yeah, I'm sorry. So I I actually find little rock to be a really hard market to even make any money in. I was just doing searching alongside you. I found one that's not far can I shoot an address in the chat for you to

Unknown Speaker  27:40
analyze Absolutely? Yeah,

Speaker 2  27:47
yeah, it's a duplex. I just found it's, but it's so it's like 20 miles from Little Rock, but it's in a college down, and so that's what I typically look at when I think of like, how to make money.

Unknown Speaker  28:02
Okay, doesn't look bad. It's got a yard.

Unknown Speaker  28:11
Does it have a driveway? Because that's even better.

Speaker 2  28:16
When the Google Maps, it looks like it has, like, a single car driveway.

Unknown Speaker  28:22
Okay, turn key,

Unknown Speaker  28:25
all right, okay, so 175

Speaker 1  28:28
so let's see what the what the estimator says on the rental or the rent every month. Oops, duplex, 1000, okay, so we might be in business here, so let's check this out.

Speaker 2  29:03
And I think you built one bed, but I think they're both. Were they two beds, one bath? Yeah, each duplex is a two bed, one bath.

Speaker 1  29:16
No same price, but it's, it's low confidence, right? So I usually check so in a situation like that where you're not sure like so this one's pretty close. It's the closest one. It was listed about, you know, four months ago, but I'll kind of go look at it and see if it's similar in the way that it looks. Yeah, not too bad, okay. I mean, it looks it's got a tree. Other than that, it looks like the same kind of place.

Unknown Speaker  30:10
Okay, so that one said,

Speaker 1  30:14
that one was 1600 so I just average those together. We'll call it 1300 because I think you could get more than if it's a nice place on the inside, you could probably get more like that. Okay, so we'll call it 13, and this Is sucker

Unknown Speaker  30:42
see what was it? 175,

Unknown Speaker  31:01
1750, 1750, 20% down, 7%

Unknown Speaker  31:09
we said, 1300 so 2600

Unknown Speaker  31:16
property taxes. 1215,

Unknown Speaker  31:34
insurance, we'll call that 150 per month. Five.

Speaker 1  31:56
Garbage, five, okay. Now bad. That's not too bad for a duplex, especially. So, yeah, so it'd be about 7200 a year, and your, you know, initial down payment wasn't too harsh. You kept yourself safe by putting the 5% on the vacancy, on capex, all the things you're supposed to do, okay, might not be bad. I think we kept it pretty safe on the 1300 and we still have a buffer in here. So if you were able to negotiate this down to possibly 165 it's going to be really sweet. See, not too bad. But this is kind of the process here, right? You analyze hundreds of these things. When I was looking for my first investment property, I can't tell you how many I looked at i i went through multiple scammers on Facebook marketplace who were that would put out a like a triplex for a really good deal, and then you would reach out to them, and they'd say, yeah, yeah, you want to come look at it. And then they take you all the way to the day of and then say, Oh, well, I'm sorry. They said they don't want to sell, but I have these properties. You want to look at these and it they would be not good deals at all, because they probably didn't even have the rights to sell the one that they listed to begin with. They're just, it's a bait and switch. They were dangling that good deal out there just to get you and then try to convince you to buy a piece of crap property. So you have to be careful about that. But I probably, before I bought my first section eight, I probably analyzed 500 different properties, easily, easily 500 it was weeks and weeks of finding one the way that the market is right now, I still like four plexes. Four plexes seem like the way to go, but it's market dependent, and it depends on what you are comfortable with. And you know, you have to ask yourself, Do I want to manage them myself? Am I comfortable with even maybe a short term rental, where it's intense management, but potentially more cash flow? You've got midterm rentals. Medium term, which is any, anything that's greater than 30 days or more, would be considered a midterm rental. And then long term, obviously, is, you know, six months to, you know, a year two, three year leases. But there's still opportunities in real estate. And if you're hungry and you don't mind living in a fourplex, especially one that's kind of run down and rehabbing it, you can make good money, but you have to sacrifice as far as this one. I mean. So I would consider this a good investment.

Unknown Speaker  35:05
I would if you have the money sitting around where you can do it.

Unknown Speaker  35:12
So, Jordan, are you gonna buy this?

Speaker 2  35:16
I'm gonna call them tomorrow. Okay, get some inside pictures. I noticed there were no interior pictures. Actually, on a rental property. It's probably like five miles from there. That's a three bedroom that I get 1700 for.

Unknown Speaker  35:31
So we're about on par Then with 1300 Yeah,

Speaker 2  35:37
but I just happened to see that pop on there today, and it looks like it's been on the market for a while. So that could be a strong negotiating factor, right?

Unknown Speaker  35:45
It can be good or it can be bad. You just never know.

Speaker 1  35:50
I'd like to jump on ones that just hit the market. Some people will do searches where, like it's been on the market for six months or more. And I get that, but there's a reason why so many people passed it up. Was this one the older property says 45 days. Well, I mean just that when it was built, oh,

Unknown Speaker  36:13
71 so that's not too bad. Now,

Speaker 1  36:18
anything that is between, I think it's 1965 and 1980 you have to be careful about aluminum wiring. If it has aluminum wiring, a lot of insurance companies will not insure it until you strip out all the aluminum, because it's a fire hazard. If it's got knob and tube on the really old stuff, most of those have been changed. But some of these in the 70s. You have to be careful about that also. This is old enough to where I would if I was considering buying this when I went in there, I would do, you know, obviously, you always get an inspection. But I would want a sewer inspection as well. I want them to send a camera down the sewer main to make sure that there's no broken pipes. There's no roots in the sewer, because that is something that you just don't know and you don't want to deal with. And it costs you, you know, three, $400 to get it done, but it can save you from buying a money pit anything below 1985 I'm going to get that done. I learned the hard way. I bought a turn of the century home, and it was beautiful, fully restored. You know, we use it as a short term rental right now, but I have to have it hydro jetted about once every three to four months, where they send high pressure through the main because it had cast iron pipes that have rusted and broken over the years. And it's really close to the house next to it. It's like one of the brownstones in the city, and you can't get equipment in there to dig it up. So it would, they would literally have to get a little tiny excavator, or just a work crew digging it out by hand, and it would cost about $30,000

Unknown Speaker  38:08
to replace that, that pipe. And it's like,

Speaker 1  38:12
if you don't do that inspection, you don't know those things, and it's trial and error, so don't make that same mistake I did. So what, what I do right now is I just hydro jet it once every few months, and everything's fine and no issues. And I put signs everywhere that says, Don't flush anything other than toilet paper. And sometimes we can make it six months, but eventually there's going to be water in the basement and sewer in the basement. It sucks,

Unknown Speaker  38:39
but yeah, this one might be a good deal,

Unknown Speaker  38:44
but that's the process, right?

Speaker 1  38:49
Just looking and looking and looking and looking. I don't like the long term investments. It's not my thing. I don't like doing out of state, because you have to have a team in place. You know? You can go to a place like you can get a real estate agent in Buffalo, for instance, to do a walk through and buffalo is a great market for real estate however, who has time for that? You can't trust property managers. You can't trust real estate agents. Generally, it's just not something I like to do. But if you're willing to put the time and effort into it, maybe it's for you, I don't know, just not for me. Um, yeah, so I, let me show you in the community, I put the I put a Rental Property Analyzer in here. So the same things that we were just doing all those equations to find out, you know, what your cash on cash return is, your your monthly cash flow, that kind of stuff. It's all in there. So if you don't want to pay for it, also you can use the. Rental property calculator as well. That's free. Don't forget about Prop wire. So let's put the let's see this property we were just looking at. Let's look at in Prop wire. I want to show you guys what it'll do. Okay, wow. So it says the estimated property value is 30 grand. So it must be in a rough neighborhood. I don't know what's going on there, but that's pretty that's pretty low. Now, usually they'll show if somebody has been paying on it, it'll show the amount of the loan, and it'll show how much equity they have. So if they have a lot of equity, that means that you're probably not going to negotiate a price too far down, but if they have hardly any equity at all, they might be in trouble and need to get out from under it. You can get a lot of specifics that you might not get from the other platforms.

Unknown Speaker  40:58
Let's see if there's anything that we didn't see on there, no

Speaker 1  41:02
basement, no carport, no parking spots. But the the main benefit of this one is right here, how much equity they have. So of course, the one I chose to show you guys, doesn't show it, but most of the time it does show it.

Speaker 2  41:26
Quick question with Prop wire, so it's just pulling from publicly and public available information.

Speaker 1  41:33
It is, it is, yeah, and state to state really makes a big difference. Like in Texas, they have different laws, and they don't record a lot of the like loan values and things like that. So if you use prop wire for properties in Texas, you're not going to see a lot of good information. But other states, like Missouri, Kansas, Alabama, places like that, you're going to see more of what people have invested into their homes.

Unknown Speaker  42:02
So we could, let's see if we can find a better one. So let's go to,

Unknown Speaker  42:14
I don't know how Wisconsin is, but

Unknown Speaker  42:18
Okay, let's try that Green Bay. Oh, that's a Virginia.

Unknown Speaker  42:41
Still took me to Virginia. Doesn't matter, Kentucky,

Speaker 1  42:51
okay, zoom in on the neighborhood here to find something good this one, whatever this one is. See right here? Here's someone that has paid off their home, right even though it's not currently for sale, they've paid it off. So you don't get that on Zillow, Redfin, any of those places that's more of a prop wire type thing and prop stream about this one. See they have paid about half of this one off. So a lot of times you know, you can get this information, and it gives you a valuable bargaining chip. If you know they don't have any equity, or they do have equity, you can make the offer accordingly. And if you, if you want to use prop stream, prop streams like, it's like 50 bucks a month, I think it's expensive, so this one's kind of a nice way to get into it.

Speaker 2  43:53
So I just typed in my address and over one of my rental properties in Arkansas, and it said the value of the house is $900 so I wonder if it's, I don't know what information is pulling from, but I wonder if it's something weird,

Speaker 1  44:07
maybe it might be something strange in Arkansas that it's, it's, it might be the assessed value for taxes. I don't know. I don't even know why I picked Arkansas. I just thought Little Rock would be a good place to start.

Speaker 2  44:22
But, I mean, no, I appreciate you doing a state like Arkansas. I feel like that's my strategy. Is picking some of these, like, smaller states that I feel like there's a lot of gold in some of those areas. You know, all the influencers want to show you, like the big cities, but I like it that's the hardest to make money in,

Speaker 1  44:44
and the competition is fierce, and you're competing against people that can make cash offers. Yeah. So here's one that's pending. Okay, so let's look at that completely paid off house. It's. Said the estimated value was 95,000 but you know, they paid a lot more than that if they listed it for 157

Unknown Speaker  45:11
Yeah, this is mainly just for this to see what they owe.

Speaker 1  45:22
Okay, I think that was the main things I wanted to show you guys, as far as that goes. You know, Redfin is still a good one. What you'll find is that you have to kind of look at all of them, Redfin, Prop, wire, Zillow. There are so many different ones. What I really love about Zillow, though, is the Zestimate. So let's look at this one. Any, any of them, there's generally a Zestimate force, not on that one. Try to find this one, boom. I find that the Zestimate is the most accurate estimate of the actual value. When you look at all of them and you compare them, Zestimates are closer than than any of the other ones, in my opinion. And there are tons of different sites that do it, and they use a bunch of fancy algorithms, but there's so many, so many properties listed on Zillow, and they have so much data that This is fairly accurate.

Unknown Speaker  46:34
Does anybody have any

Speaker 3  46:40
questions? Okay? You said you like the full Plexus, right? How do you deal with, let's say you just bought a property and then HVAC breaks up. But in that case, everything is going to be like times four, right? Or, I mean, of course, it's not going to break like all of them, but still, you need to have some reserves, right in order to potentially, like, fix and then those items are, like, very expensive, right? Yeah.

Speaker 1  47:11
So, I mean, that's part of that 5% keeping that back, you know, but you have, if it that's the risk, so if it breaks immediately after you buy it, you're screwed. You're gonna have to go out of pocket. You're gonna have to use credit to get it. But if you had that property for a year or two, you should have a little bit of a war chest where, you know, you can pay for those things that come up, but there's all your profit down the tubes. And that's the real estate game. That's why I say that. I don't want the class C and D properties, because it's all about cash flow. You're not going to you're not going to get appreciation, at least for a Class A and B property. If you do take some hits and you don't get a lot of cash flow just holding on to it for five to 10 years, you're going to make money when you sell as as long as you know, even if you think back on if you were to have bought a house in 2008 right before everything crashed and you held it 10 years, you still made a lot of money. Now, there was a period in there. If you would have gotten spooked and sold, you would have lost a lot of money, but if you hold it long enough, you're always going to make money. That's what real estate is great. That's why it's great. But people get scared, or they can't pay their mortgages, and that's where they lose their money. But if you have the resources and the ability to keep it and hold it for long enough, generally a 10 year window, you're going to make money, thanks, but, yeah, you need some some credit to be able to handle those things, because if, if the heater goes out, you have to fix it. Like people can't go without heat. They can't go without hot water. They can't go without AC. That's the landlord life. I mean, I've when I was managing myself, I was, I think it was like Thanksgiving Day I was fixing a water heater.

Unknown Speaker  49:15
You just have to do what you have to do. You

Speaker 4  49:23
okay, if you were to look into more of a home that would appreciate rather than cash flow, would you be able to basically take a HELOC from that to fund a down payment for a business and essentially avoid all taxes.

Speaker 1  49:44
Avoid all taxes. Well, I mean, so, I mean, you can, you can definitely use a HELOC from an investment property, but you have to build enough equity out of the HELOC, you know, in that investment property to make it worth it. So, um. With HELOC, you're not going to get 100% of your what you know the value of the home is, or your equity. You're only going to get 70% of the equity that you have in there. So if you buy a $500,000 property, maybe you put 100,000 you've got 100,000 equity. They're only going to give you a HELOC for about 70,000 but you can 100% use that to buy a business, yeah? I mean, even your primary residence, you can use that he lock to buy a business. It's the and you can use an SBA loan, because they consider it your money. You know, you've paid into that property. It's, it's 100% acceptable.

Speaker 4  50:44
So if you had a small business and you bought real estate under that like S corp or whatever, would you be able to pay the loan for that property before income tax? Would it be like a business expense?

Speaker 1  51:01
Okay, so the business bought the property, right? And, yeah, so you have to use that. The thing with, with a property like that is you have to use, have business use in it. So otherwise it would be the you'd get no benefits buying it through the business, unless you use it for business purposes. So you would just get the standard, you know, investment tax breaks that you get as a real estate investor. Gotcha. Yeah. So that's why I like the disregarded entities and short term rentals. So if you have a disregarded entity that's your LLC, it goes on your schedule, C on your personal taxes, and your short term rental goes on your personal taxes, and you get all those deductions for depreciation. You get bonus depreciation, all goes into one big bucket. All your income goes into this bucket, and all your expenses go into this bucket, your deductions and at whatever you're left over with is what the federal government taxes when you start having C corps, where it's completely separate entity, then things get a little bit more complicated, because, you know, it's double taxed. Whatever, whatever income you're taking from the business is taxed, but it's taxed before you even get it too. So they tax the profit on the business, then they tax your income. So it you just have to reach a certain threshold with a C Corp for it to make sense, and that that's why, you know, you don't see a lot of people with with C corps, using those to buy real estate. It's usually the disregarded entities, sole proprietors, things like that, because it's all in that same bucket, your personal income bucket,

Unknown Speaker  53:11
okay?
