Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. It's Shane with money Language Academy. This is the mentorship Q and A for Thursday, June 12, 2025, and so I just kind of wanted to open it up with something I talk about my current acquisition and something that I was able to do with this one that is kind of, kind of rare. So this, this particular business, for me, was dependent upon the manager. There's one, there's a manager that is very, very good. What he does. He's also the lead technician. He he's fully capable. He's, you know, he's like, he's, he's the type of manager that you don't see very often, that I really want to retain him. And if he wasn't in there, I probably wouldn't move forward with the deal. So what I was able to do in the last negotiation phases of the purchase agreement was to put in that purchase agreement, a contingency that if he doesn't sign a three year employment agreement, then I'm I'm not going to purchase the business. So we, we negotiated a 48 hour window. They didn't want me to go too early to speak to him. So within 48 hours of closing on not not not this Friday, but next Friday. So Thursday is what I'm playing on. Do it. I'm going to go meet with this manager. I'll have the employment agreement set up and ready, and what I'm going to offer him, and I think he's going to love this, is 10% of net sales going forward, as long as he grows the business. So if, if, whatever it like, if the current projections, if they go lower, he doesn't get 10% but if they from at this point, and they go higher, he's going to get 10% of the net sales month to month. So say, if we, you know, if the profit is $10,000 right, he's going to make 1000 Okay, so that's that's a way to keep him for three years at least, and to keep him motivated to build and grow. And it's something that I like to do, but I'm usually not able to do it before I purchase. It's something I try to do afterwards. You know, I talked to the manager, and I want to make sure, but most employers won't allow you to do this. So this has been a really cool thing to be able to do that, because if he says, No, I love the owner and I don't want to work for you, then no harm, no foul. Okay, well, I'm not going to buy this business, but just I wanted you, you all to know that that's a possibility. If you get into a situation where you're like, the business is decent, but there's only one person that can run it that, and they're already running it, and what happens if they leave? So might just be something that you can think about for the future.

Speaker 2  02:58
Shane, I have a question. I'm sorry. I had to copy it real quick. Okay, so in that case, if, if you are it like you are the one buying a business that's like a job, like, what I'm trying to do right now, then what do you do? Like, what would be the way out? Like?

Speaker 1  03:16
Well, if you're not, if you're going to manage then, and you want to be that person, then what you're, you're worried about is the training period. You want to make sure you have a long enough training period from the previous owner that they are available not so they're they're there on site for however many days that you feel like you need them to be there a couple of weeks as you learn the ins and out. And then they are available for six months where you can call them, you know, like, Hey, I have a problem. What? What should I do? Or I can't find this, who's your vendor for this? Whatever, like, whatever that might come up that you would need them for that that's what's most important in those situations. Because if you're going to be the manager. You just need to have the proper training so you negotiate an extended period of time to make sure that you get all the information you need to take over.

Speaker 2  04:12
Appreciate that. So in that case, should you have that written into the purchase agreement, or should you have brought that up? I mean, you can die or what point life,

Speaker 1  04:25
it depends on. Everybody has a different style. I don't put much in the loi, you know, I put, I make the Lois very generic. I don't put even a total price. I put a range of price in there. The main things I'm trying to accomplish with Lois. I don't want them to shop it around to anyone else. I don't want I want to make sure that I have access to everything that I need to do, to check everything, all the financials, all the software, you know, bank statements, whatever I feel like I need to try. Back down to do my due diligence. Like, that's, that's my main focus. Now, there are other people who will tell you that they they do negotiating up front in an LOI, like they're hardcore. This is the price that, you know, it's, I'm gonna close on this date and and blah, blah, blah, blah, like, it's almost like a mini purchase agreement. I'd rather not do that. I'd rather get in there and before I even make a concrete money off me, like I don't, because I don't know, you know, maybe there's some things that are off, maybe there's some things that aren't right. I would much rather do that in the purchase agreement phase, because I also don't want an attorney involved in the LOI part, because I don't want to pay them for, you know, sometimes 2500 $3,000 to come up with iron clad, fully negotiated loi, and then have to pay them again for the purchase agreement that if I go halfway through due diligence after the loi, that I don't want to purchase the business. You know, the LOI is non binding, so I'd much rather wait till the purchase agreement phase, iron that out at the end, then then do it up front. That's just kind of how I do it though.

Unknown Speaker  06:15
All right, thank you. That's really helpful.

Unknown Speaker  06:18
No problem. Shane, okay, let's see.

Speaker 1  06:26
Janine, you asked a question earlier, if you don't mind asking that question again, so we can kind of capture the answer

Speaker 3  06:35
yes, just regarding standard operating procedures, how? How you put those together? If you use any like particular software, I think you said Google Docs sufficed and what your I guess, what your procedure is,

Unknown Speaker  06:55
okay, yeah, so

Speaker 1  06:59
I like the Google platform for all that stuff, even internally in the business, and then even at companies that I've worked for in the past or even consulted with, is Google is a good, solid platform. You get everything. You get the drive so you can you don't have to worry about having shared storage somewhere else, like you get plenty of access to storage space. You get Google Docs, Google Sheets, you get Google meet. So if you don't want to pay for zoom, Google meet is totally free, and it works great. And let as long as you don't have like 2030, 4050, people in a Google you know, in one of those meetings, it works just fine for free, it just and then also, like Google Docs, you can do everything you need to in there. You can export a PDF as Word documents as whatever you need to do. But so what I what I call it is I call every business has a playbook. And so rather than standard operating procedures, which seems a little intimidating, like, what is SOP, and it's just very formal. So I'll just call it a playbook, and you just, there's an index in the Google Drive that's, you know, so you just have a question. You go to that index and it says, okay, hiring. And they'll click on it, and it'll link them right to the Google Doc that has all the hiring stuff that they need. You know, where do I list the job? Where? What's the interview process? Blah, blah, blah, regardless of what it is like, all the main stuff should be in there. And you only really ever have to do that once. And you surprised as you go from business to business. You can just copy that and put it in place for the you know, you have to tweak it, obviously, but the main stuff still works, you know, like code of conduct and things like that. You know, everybody's respectful, everybody's on time, you know, standard kind of stuff, but just to have it out there and have it available to every employee, and then that way the manager can, if they have an issue, they can always refer back to that, because that's the source of truth. You don't have a lot of wishy washyness. Well, you let you know, Susie do this, and I asked the same thing, and I can't do whatever. You just eliminate that kind of stuff if you have it all documented. And that's the playbook, you know, sick days, whatever it is, you know, how many, how many late days that, how many days they show up late before there are consequences, you know, all that kind of stuff. It's much better to have that out there and available so no employees blindsided, and the managers know how to handle every situation. And it's something that you'll, you'll add to consistently, from, you know, especially when you first start, first get in there, you're going to be, you know, contributing a whole bunch to it, but then over the years, you're just refining it.

Unknown Speaker  09:57
It's a great question, though.

Speaker 3  09:58
Thank you. That makes. And so with the links, I wasn't even thinking about that, about like, having separate documents and then linking it out. I was thinking putting it all on one sheet, and I'm like, if I add to it, then it's going to kind of, like, mess up the flow of it. That makes so much more sense.

Unknown Speaker  10:14
Technologically challenged,

Unknown Speaker  10:17
but yes, thank you. It

Speaker 1  10:19
helps. I mean, I've seen some places that have, like, one PDF, and it's got a table of contents, and it does the same thing, it'll just link you to that same big document. But I would rather have the small documents, because that way, if, if they're shared, you know, like code of conduct, then they can all be linked to the same document. You don't have to, you know, you change it one place. It changes for everywhere, you know, and they can't that nobody has edit rights to that, other than me and maybe a manager temporarily if I allow them to change something before I approve it. But you know, no, no regular employees are going to be changing that stuff.

Unknown Speaker  10:56
Thank you. Oh, wow, that's cool. Yeah. Peter Thiel, there you go. Yeah, um,

Speaker 1  11:09
those are the the mundane tasks of being a business owner, right? But, but that's what so people are always like, well, how is it, how is it absentee? Or, how do you turn it absentee? That's one of that's system, systematizing everything, right? Because you gotta, you gotta learn how to own the business and not not let the business own you. Everybody in this group probably knows an owner that works 5060, hours a week, that is just killing themselves and might be successful, might be making good money and have a good, viable business. But who wants to, who wants to live that kind of life? I don't want to live that kind of life. I don't want to, you know, sacrifice all my time and, you know, to build a business when I could maybe take a little bit less money and have someone else work on a lot of that stuff. You know, there's a there's a book. I forget his name. It's Martell. That's his last name. It's buy back your time, right? And this, this what he says when you find things that you can delegate you, when you give them to somebody, they're not going to do as good a job as you do, so because they don't care as much. So if I'm a business owner and I'm like, Oh, those windows need to be cleaned. I'm gonna clean them with a certain diligence and care that probably a regular employee wouldn't do it with. You know, they might not get them as clean as I would get them maybe 80% clean, but if they do the job at 80% it's 100% freaking awesome that I didn't have to do it right because I didn't have to spend hours doing it. I didn't, you know that's you can't get your time back. You know you can. You can earn more money later, but you can't earn more time. That's just not how it works. So if you, if you find those tasks and you can delegate them, then that frees up your time to do things that can make you more money. You can find another business. You can find real estate deals, you can figure out strategies to grow the business, because you're not wasting time on things that other people can do for the sake of squeezing a couple more pennies out of the business. There's definitely a return on investment when it comes to that. And just because it's it's saving you money doesn't mean it's always the wise thing to do. Yeah? Dan Martel, yeah, that's a great book. It's been a while since I since I read it. I should go back through it. Anybody else have any questions? Keith, you want to talk about your thing

Unknown Speaker  13:45
we were messaging about earlier? Yeah,

Speaker 4  13:49
yeah. It's kind of like what I think brought up in the last class, found a shop local, made a couple attempts to reach out to him, reached out to the contract commissioner on the ad, some of the text, no response yet. But I'm in the area a few times a month, so he's, I don't know, maybe 10 to his probably shop. So I like, I don't know what, under 20 minutes away. So I was thinking about just dropping by and talking to him see if he was around either tomorrow or Saturday, if they're open. And just, I have to probably do it in a specific manner. I don't know if his employees know that he's selling, but I'd like to, I like to be, yeah, I have to talk about, I don't know. They say, Hey, I saw your ad. Be kind of cool about, or honestly, just,

Speaker 1  14:35
I wouldn't add, I would just, especially if any employees around, you know, say, yeah, really be interested in talking to the owner. This is a really cool place, you know, something like that. Okay, more big, yeah, because, like, that's, that's one way that you can really tick off an owner. Yeah, yeah, throw monkeys in there. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Because, you know, I have never been able to go talk to. Employees with them knowing that I'm interested in buying maybe a manager, but regular employees, no, no, no. Owner wants wants them to know that. Because they're going to leave, they get scared. It's human nature. They they assume that someone's going to come in. They're going to fire everybody and put their own team in place. And you know, it's over. The sky's falling, yeah, worst case scenario, even though it's not like that at all, even after you even after you buy the business, and you come in and you make a like, a big speech to everyone, telling them that they're still gonna be human nature. You're right, yeah, they're gonna be concerned that that's gonna

Speaker 4  15:35
happen to change. Okay, yeah. So I'm just, yeah, I'm probably, at this point, I'm gonna do it. I mean, I'm in the area, might as well. And he hasn't responded to me in the different different channels, so I got to reach out. I just, it's the next, I think it's the next, next best option, because it's priced, well, seems to do well, I don't know. Have to look at his books. And yeah, it seems like a very good opportunity. Yeah, opportunity. Gotta shoot my shot.

Unknown Speaker  16:05
Yeah? Why not? Yeah.

Speaker 1  16:08
Kobe says you, he said you miss 100% of the shots you don't take.

Unknown Speaker  16:12
Yeah, exactly, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:19
So I'll let you know how it goes.

Unknown Speaker  16:22
I'll either go tomorrow, or if they're open on Saturday, I'll go Saturday.

Speaker 1  16:27
Okay, yeah, yeah, cool. And, and, who knows, he might think that that's like, Oh, he's really interested. He showed up. You know, that's somebody who's enthusiastic and cares. It's not a private equity firm that's gonna send me an email with,

Speaker 4  16:44
yeah, I'm just the regular guy, yeah. I'm just, yeah, like you said. I'm just, if I do, if I do, I'm talking to encountering a play first. I just got to figure out how to pivot and say, Oh, I don't know. Like, like you said, Maybe I like, the shop is the owner around, or something like that. What will be the best way to approach, kind of engage in that situation?

Speaker 1  17:04
Well, there, it's going to be tough, because they're going to think you're a salesman of some sort, you know, when, when somebody just comes in unsolicited and like, Hey, can I talk to your owner? They're trying to sell something. So you might hit a barrier there with the employees, you know, because he's like, oh, you know, he doesn't want to talk to talk to salesman, maybe, so I don't know. Do you know? Does he work regular hours there? Do you know anything like that? Like, maybe

Speaker 4  17:30
says on a shop? Yeah, like the he it looks like it. He just says he doesn't. The reason he's selling is he doesn't have the time, so I'm assuming he works there regular hours. I'll try. I'll call. I'll call tomorrow morning and kind of get an idea of, hey, I want to bring my car in. Is a manager. Typically, is a manager. Typically there is the owner, typically there. I'll make up some, some BS to try.

Speaker 1  17:53
Yeah, there you go. Get a feel. Yeah, if you can just talk to a receptionist and find out, you know, on the sly, if they're there, then you can pretty much do anything after that, yeah, just

Speaker 4  18:02
slide in there. And when I get there, I'll, I'll have to say something. I know his name is on there, so he can look him up on Facebook and see what he looks like. So I know I'm talking to Yep.

Speaker 1  18:14
And you know you could do kind of a cool move is just to invite him to lunch, like, Hey, I'm gonna go to lunch to talk about the business. That way. He's out of the business. He's not, you know, there's no, no employees overhearing anything, you know, to talk to you about that stuff. So that might be a good way to do it.

Speaker 4  18:34
Got it? Okay? So, yeah, just like, schedule lunch another time after I talk to him,

Speaker 1  18:39
or maybe that day, if you, if you go in the morning, it's like 10 or something like, Hey, that's true. Have some lunch at noon. Yeah, you're in and out, and employees don't know any different. Yeah, that's true. Okay, perfect. Yeah, you could even say hey, I know, don't you know not, not an old friend of Bob, but I know Bob. Is he? Is he here?

Unknown Speaker  19:02
There you go. Okay, that makes sense.

Speaker 1  19:04
That way, nobody knows anything, and you're not a salesman. Yeah,

Speaker 4  19:07
kind of get me in. Give me an in a little bit. Yep, cool. Thank you.

Speaker 5  19:16
Question, how do you find the owner's information, like the name? Do you use like public data, or is there any you

Speaker 1  19:24
can if it's an LLC, you can look it up and find the Registered Agent. They might be the Registered Agent themselves, but it's not always. It's not always the case, but usually an owner is proud to be an owner of a business like that, you know. And they're they might even be on the website, with their picture on the website and their history when they like most of the time, that's what you're going to see. It's like real estate is where people are trying to be, you know, completely hidden and invisible, with a Wyoming Corporation, where tenants can't find out who actually owns it, you. It. But, yeah, most of those places like that, especially, especially a baby boomer that's built it from scratch there, everybody knows who the owner is. It's pretty easy to find out. There might be like, articles about that business that are, you know, especially if it's been the community for 1020, years, for sure. But sometimes it's a dead end. If it's a Wyoming, they don't want you to know, yeah, same thing with with real estate, you know, I think Keith talked about it last week. You skipped trace the owner, and you can use services to do that to figure out who actually owns the property like so we have locally, you can, it's a GIS or gdis or CGis. Basically it's a it's a county directory that you can go to, you can put the address in, and it'll bring up the tax records and tell you who's been paying taxes on it. So you can get their name right there, and then you can put it in one of those people finders and track them down. So I've been able to do that several times. I've been scheming to try to buy a four Plex that's been vacant for like, five years, and yet they're paying, they're paying lawn services to, you know, take care of the snow and to mow it, and it's just sitting there empty, and it has been for a very long time. So he's never know,

Speaker 5  21:33
so you, you weren't able to find the owner.

Speaker 1  21:37
Or, yeah, I found that. I found the owner. I'm afraid he might have passed away. I'm not sure. I'm not sure if that's the issue. I've called the number several times, and I get the voicemail, and it's actually the owner. It's the same name, and I found a Facebook account that's pretty old, and I always I leave messages. I leave I call at least once a month and leave a message on his voicemail. I haven't ever heard anything back, so I don't know might be a dead end. Pardon the pund the pun.

Speaker 5  22:17
I wanted to share the website. I haven't tried yet, but I just I see a lot of like influencers such as this website. It's expensive, like $100 a month, but if you were looking for like, an off market deal, maybe like laundromat or car wash, they said that you can find something Yeah, like the owner's information and like, even like the real estate Yeah, Keith probably might know it, yeah. I'm not sure, yeah.

Speaker 1  22:49
I mean, deal machine is pushing yeah by the real estate rookie podcast people, and I think they're affiliated with bigger pockets. They like every other commercial in that podcast is about deal machine. I'm not sure how much it is, though. Is it expensive? So $100

Speaker 4  23:06
a month, at least when I was raised in the past. It's pretty cool. I'm not gonna lie, it's cool. You can skip trace, you can universal drive, and then if you're, I mean, I would in the past, I've walked my dog and I get leads, so things just pop up. Or, you mean, you get property information pops up. Or I forget it's been, it's been about a year since I use it. I forget exactly like, how works, what kind of property comes up, but it's, it's pretty cool. It's interactive. I'm sure it's advanced since then as well, too. And it's a good networking opportunity to connect with other investors

Speaker 1  23:36
through there. Okay, there's also a, I forget the name of it. But essentially, what it is is for hunters. It's an app, and this, this app allows you to it uses your location, your your GPS location, to tell you who owns the land that you're on or near. Oh, and so that way, if you're in the woods and you're hunting and you there's no fence where you know it's somebody else. You know, you've got permission to hunt this land, but you can use it for real estate too, and it's very cheap. So it uses the same kind of interest, you know, same kind of database as those other services, but it's very cheap. So I know a lot of people do that as kind of a hack to figure out who owns the property. I wish I could remember the name of it, but if you just look up, I would imagine you could just Google that and find the app. It's got a weird name, but I used it one time because I got some mail just from a random person to my address and with somebody else in the neighborhood, and I didn't know, so I just went from house to house to house on there, looking to see who owned it, and I found the person and took it in their mail. I. Anybody else got anything going? Someone to talk about, Joe, you've been quiet lately. What you got, what you got brewing? I'm just

Unknown Speaker  25:15
letting everyone else talk until

Speaker 6  25:19
I know I can talk when I'm given the chance. I was just looking at as this conversation was going on. I was looking at biz by sell, and I just came across, like, just now, an audio visual lighting company looks like they do, you know, like events and concerts, and that's what I used to do in my 20s. I used to own, like, a little dive bar music venue, and I toured with bands and stuff like that. So, I mean, I actually just sent them a message not even a minute ago, right before you said that. So what are the numbers? So this company right here. And this is like asking price for 1.2 million, and the cash flow is 411 so it's pretty close to the three times multiple. And from what I can see, reason for retire, reason for selling is retirement. Got five employees Clay County, which is not too far away from me. So, I mean, I've worked in music and concerts and stuff, you know, long hours, but, but I do have a lot of experience in that, so maybe that could give me a leg up in this so we, you know, just send a message like, seriously, two seconds ago. So I could be a good, good new opportunity. So we'll see.

Speaker 1  26:50
Do you guys have searches saved by cell?

Speaker 6  26:55
I just found that feature there today. Yes, you'll

Speaker 1  26:59
have to have the paid service to save a search. So you can save your criteria. You can you can narrow it down, you can make it broad, whatever, and that way you know when new listings come up, and you can have it notify you, I think hourly, daily or weekly. Maybe even more. Is it real time? Nothing. It's hourly is the most you can go but, but it's, it's totally worth it, because, you know, you can, you can be the first one to in, the first mover, you know, and other people are not doing that. And you could, you could go to the top of the list and get something under loi before even, people even realize it's listed. So then someone else looks at that listing and like, the situation that we've been in a lot lately is, oh, it's already, it's, it's pending, you know, it's under loi, because somebody beat us to it. But that's, that's a good way I get, I get those throughout the day generally. Be very helpful. And you can put, I think biz quest will let you do that too. But I definitely have, I have a bunch of them set for biz by sell bunch.

Speaker 6  27:59
Yeah, I just discovered that feature the saving like last night when I was on my desktop, whereas I'm usually on my phone, which I have not seen that feature yet. So, but yeah, when I was on my desktop yesterday, I logged and said, sign in, save, and I got an email today about some businesses. So, yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  28:32
Anybody else? Wally, I

Speaker 7  28:35
actually had a question when you brought up the LOI extra. Reminded me so for the if you're if there's a deal, it's structured as an asset sale, and you're ready to, you know, draft the LOI. Do you need to already have a an existing LLC to do that?

Speaker 1  28:53
No, you. I mean, you can, but you don't have to. No, yeah. I mean, it's so quick you can create an LLC in a week or two. So if you you know, you have plenty of time to do that. So especially if you're in a state where there's a lot of like, the filing fees are pretty steep, or you have to file an annual report with a bunch more fees per year, like you wouldn't want just to have a bunch of LLCs hanging out for no reason. So, yeah, you can, you can wait until you get under loi and really dig into the numbers, and then you're like, Okay, you know, we're getting about a month away. And I think, I think this is viable. I think, I think I want to move forward. Then you can do it then, okay.

Speaker 7  29:39
And also, this is, like, I guess it was basically a two part question. So if capital stacking was involved in that, what the process sort of be before you're ready for loi, you create the needed LLC, and you would use that to capital stack, and then you would also use that for the asset sale.

Speaker 1  29:58
Yeah, well, capital stack. Learning changes things, because you need more time to season that money. So you have to have enough time to so you want your, if that is your, if your plan is the capital stack, I would create an LLC now in the right way and have it ready. Yeah, no,

Speaker 7  30:14
I wasn't, yeah. I mean, I wasn't planning on capital stacking. Like the price range I'm looking at, for most of them are, you know, within what I can do for 10%

Unknown Speaker  30:25
so, but I was just wondering, like, the process of that,

Speaker 1  30:28
yeah, if you, if you already have a down payment, then you can, you can afford to wait for the LLC, because you're not under a time crunch to get that funding. But if your plan is to use capital stacking, you should go ahead and create an LLC now. You should be, you should be working on working on your credit create the LLC. Now have it ready and be searching for businesses every day. And then have, when you have at least two that are that you feel like are viable, you can put Lois on both and initiate capital stacking all the same time. Boom, boom, boom. And ideally, if you have three, that's even better. So then you can, you can do your rounds of funding. And surely, of those three, you know, you can bring one home. But even if you can't, it's not, you know, all is not lost, because you still have, you know, 11 more months to, you know, of no interest funding. So, but yeah, that's that's kind of the process there. You want to have your LLC ready, and you would do your rounds of funding at the same time as loi, so that way you can get your funding, you can liquidate it, and you can put it in the bank account and have it sitting. And if you're going to do that, you might want to push your proposed closing date to further out than you normally would in the loi, but you can always, if you get to the end of that and you need some more time, they'll give you more time. And you don't have to tell them exactly why, but you could just say, well, the funds are coming from blah, blah, blah, whatever you know, which is true, but they don't have to know that they're coming from capital stacking. It's just, you know, you can say I'll be more liquid in three more weeks to make this deal, and they'll give you three weeks, if they've already taken, you know, quartered you all the way through to this end stage. They'll give you three more weeks or a month or whatever.

Speaker 7  32:16
Okay, yeah, that makes sense. I just, I didn't really, I never really planned on capital stacking, just because, with how early on it is for me, if I were to capital stack, it would involve using that friend that you mentioned, and I'd rather not go through the year and not find anything worst case scenario, and I just end up paying, you know, couple $1,000 for, you know, that fee, and And then do that all over again, the next year and the next, you know. So I'm trying to find something within what you know, within the means that I can, you know, do.

Unknown Speaker  32:49
So, yeah, that makes sense.

Speaker 1  33:00
Yeah, the Timing can be crucial, especially when it comes to capital stacking, you get a lot more wiggle room otherwise, but yeah, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  33:14
Shane, this is patience again.

Speaker 2  33:19
Just wanted to let you know that, in terms of my

Unknown Speaker  33:24
beauty, my business,

Speaker 2  33:27
things are moving forward is kind of a little very slow, but it's just like the plant is just reviving itself, and Things are moving slowly. Today I got with the lawyer, and, you know, back and forth, I stated what I want in the LOI or how I would want it worded in certain areas. So he's planning to give that to the guy, to the other lawyer tomorrow. I'm signing it at some point tonight, and he's giving it to the lawyer tomorrow. So my question is, for a business like this that is not a typical businesses on bits by cell what should I be looking at when those when I get my hands on those numbers, like, how do I extract those when, unlike best buy, sell, you know, the numbers are spelled out for you pretty much, and you just throw them into the into the Finder. Or, what is that called? Again, that documents. But in this case, I'm like, you know, the one sourcing for them from scratch, like, what would be the best place to go or the best

Speaker 1  34:47
thing to do? So do they still haven't given you the financials? Loi, no,

Speaker 2  34:54
no, no, the loi, the lawyer, has actually been busy. So. The LOI. He wrote to me that I showed you I didn't like the content definitely, so we just finalized making it more like what I would want it to be. You know, being very mindful about removing specific things like the earnest money being removed and stuff like that. So the plan is, we talked earlier today, and the plan is to give, get the LOI sent over tomorrow morning, first thing in the morning.

Unknown Speaker  35:32
So why they won't give you the financials before your LOI?

Speaker 2  35:39
Um, that was the criteria they put down. They they want an LOI for us before they release anything.

Speaker 1  35:47
Yeah. I mean, that's kind of irregular, but, I mean, as long as they're not making you put money down ahead of time, that's that's better, because just just to let everybody know that the LOI that they wanted her to sign was 10% earnest money, 10% down in earnest money that was in jeopardy of not returning, not, you know, getting being able to get it back, and that is definitely you should not sign any contract like that to put 10% down in earnest money, whether it's a purchase agreement or an LOI or it doesn't matter, like that, that's too much to put down, and it's a little it's a little fishy. Honestly, I understand, you know, the RE I understand why they would do that, because they want to make sure that someone has enough for the down payment. You know, you're proving to them that you have enough for the down payment. But that's too much. It's too much.

Speaker 2  36:43
The thing was, it wasn't even their lawyer that wrote that. It was my lawyer that wrote that, Oh, yeah. So he was telling me that he just brought up something, not that he was gonna turn that in. He wanted me to know like, this is just like, you know, he just, this is just like a format. But then that format was even done too rough for you to to draft like you were against me in the first place, you know, yeah. It was like, way too Yeah.

Speaker 1  37:17
That was, yeah. If that was my lawyer, I would have fired him on the spot. I'm just being honest with you, because I know, yeah, they either don't they're either incompetent or don't have your best interests either way. Yeah, horrible. Yeah.

Speaker 2  37:35
So everything was changed, and I told him what, I want to be there definitely. So I think he just put something, and then he was waiting for us to edit. But that was like those two scenarios you mentioned, that did feed him, you know, he did scare me out with those wordings and everything. So yeah, we are going to send that in tomorrow. So my question will be like, so when they get the Li, you know, they will give me the financials. What should I be quick to look at? What is like? You know, since I don't have those estimated numbers like I will find in this by sell,

Speaker 1  38:19
you'll still have those numbers. Those will be in your profit and loss statements. They should be pulled directly from the profit and loss statement. You'll be able to see the the revenue, the you know, the net income, all that stuff will be on there. So okay, so the first thing you're going to do is you're going to try to identify the cash flow on the profit and loss statements for the last because you want three years of profit and loss statements, you want a year to date statement, and you statement, and you want three years of tax returns. So you're just going to analyze

Unknown Speaker  38:48
three years of

Speaker 1  38:49
at least three years of profit and loss statements, at least three years of tax returns, and then a year to date statement, okay, yeah, year to date is basically just the profit and loss statement from January 1 to today. That's what it just tells you what it's doing this year, because otherwise, all you're going to see is profit and loss statement at the end of like, you know January 1, 2020, 2025, you know where you know six months into the year. So you want to know how it's been doing for the last six months too. But so you're going to look at the profit and loss statements first and identify the key numbers in there which are going to you know, your your at least your net income to begin with, because that's going to tell you, you know what it's making after expenses, okay? And then you're going to compare that to what they're putting on the tax returns and see what, because there'll be, is it

Unknown Speaker  39:45
an LLC? What is it?

Speaker 2  39:48
It says it's an incorporation. But when, when we looked at it, me and the banker, when I brought it to the banker, he was so curious, like he went straight to. Search the business off. The banker noticed the business used to be an incorporation when it was sold, but it was never filed after the sales. So I'm not sure if it became like, it became like a sole proprietorship, like he took over

Speaker 1  40:19
it was, it was probably a an LLC purchased it as an asset sale, and they have a doing business. So when you do a DBA on an LLC, when you search for that in the LLC section of the Secretary of State website, it won't come up. You there's sometimes they're called fictitious names on the Secretary of State sites, they might have doing business as a section that you can search for that, or fictitious name. You can search for that sometimes, but it's a different thing. So the name of the entity is one thing, but they actually do business in another name, even like a regular person, like if you have a sole proprietorship, if you have you know, patients medical transport, you could, you could do a DBA under with your name, as you know. You could change it to quick or efficient medical transport instead, get your name off of it without changing your entity. So if you don't want your name, you no longer want your name to be on there, you want it to be something else. A lot of people will, they'll use that when say they're going to they have children, and it's, you know, Smith, Smith Plumbing. And then it's going to be Smith and Sons plumbing. Later they'll do a DBA, as opposed to changing and creating a new entity and all that stuff that's that's kind of what that's for, but we've people adopt it in order to do an asset sale and then keep the same name. Okay, oh, wow. Okay, thank you. But that might be what happens. So if you look in because you're in Illinois, right? You might go to the Secretary of State website for Illinois, and there might be a section on there called fictitious names, or DBA names, or something like that. You might be able to search for it there,

Speaker 2  42:16
yeah, but I can do that if I don't know the TBA that he's using correct.

Speaker 1  42:20
Well, it's whatever's on the business right when you Oh, okay, so whatever, whatever's on the checks that comes in, you know that's, that would be the DBA Name, Gotcha, okay, if it's not an actual registered entity under that name. Okay?

Speaker 2  42:38
So I know I caught you off. You were actually going through some cool stuff. You said on the profit and loss statement that I will find on the net income, I'll be able to look see, you know,

Speaker 1  42:51
at least that'll give you an idea the net income will give you an idea of what it's earning after everything's paid for, after the expenses, the cost of goods sold. I mean, there's, there's going to be more than that, but that's, that's the first thing you want to identify for sure. And there, you know, go back over the video. There's a, there's a video that we did about a month ago that where you, you know, you're going through the profit and loss statements, and you're going through the tax returns and comparing it. So definitely, definitely rewatch that video and use that to, you know, kind of see what your numbers are, and then you know if you are you signing an NDA,

Unknown Speaker  43:33
um, yeah, okay, so

Speaker 1  43:36
you can't really share them with us in the mentorship, but what you can, you can pull some of those numbers out, or you can redact the names and you know, some of the things that you know that everybody shouldn't see. You can share them that way. Maybe copy and paste some things out, as long as, as long as we don't know, you know what the name of the business or anything which we don't should be fine.

Speaker 2  44:06
Yeah, I know everything started like I should be skeptical, but it's one industry that I've always wanted to have, and I have a fancy whole nose in and out of that business like the back of his hands. So I feel like is a perfect opportunity to and it's a business that you can grow to whatever you want it to be like, you can really like, extend into being online, being in brick and mortar, like you could take it to different direction. It just, I'm still like, you know, one leg in, one leg out, hoping that the financials makes sense.

Unknown Speaker  44:57
But we'll see, not sure yet, we'll see.

Unknown Speaker  45:00
Okay, thank you so much.

Unknown Speaker  45:04
Yeah, no problem. Good. I have

Speaker 2  45:06
difficulty with going back to playing the videos. I have not really had success with that. If you just touch back on how we can get back to the videos like i don't think i That's why I tried to not miss class, because I kind of like it live and be done. So when we go back to look for the videos, sometimes it's hard for me to find exactly what I want us.

Speaker 1  45:31
Okay, well, that, that one will be, it's, it's, I can probably find it for you. Let's, let's do that real fast. So if you go to the classroom that would have been a business course, click on the business

Speaker 2  45:47
your screen is not sharing too. Is it not sharing? No, you it started from way before the last section ended and somebody typed that your screen wasn't sharing, like it got stuck somewhere.

Unknown Speaker  46:03
Is it? Is it sharing now? No, yeah, I can

Speaker 5  46:13
see a screen. Shane, you can, yes, I can,

Unknown Speaker  46:18
okay. Can you see a patient's

Unknown Speaker  46:23
Yeah, I see now.

Speaker 1  46:25
Okay, okay, cool. So, so if you just start from the main page of the community, here, you click the classroom, and then I'm pretty sure this was in the business section. Click the business section, and here it is, financials breakdown. Click that, and then it's that video right there. And it all, all of them have, like, a summary of what, what's going on in there. So you it can kind of help, you know, you know, that's the video you're looking for. So this one, you know, it's got the explains all the terms and talks about the key documents and then how to compare them, talk about add backs, different structures, like all that's in There.

Unknown Speaker  47:15
All right, thank you so much. No problem. You

Speaker 5  47:23
Shane, can you please talk about you did mention last time, I think, last week, about the partnership, the one you mentioned buying up like 10 auto shops, and what was the tax strategy? You said that if you sell like one or two, right? You don't have to pay taxes, right? On is it up to like, $5 million right? How does that work?

Speaker 1  47:46
Yeah, he said it was 5 million per so it's, it's a small bit. It's basically, if you start a qualified small business from scratch, and then you sell it there, if, as long as it fits the criteria set forth in the tax code, then you can sell it without paying taxes on the first 10 million. If, well, 5 million a piece. So if it's a partnership, 10 million total. So his idea was to buy the 10 auto repair shops and then start a software business that it, you know, those are all customers of the software business. And then create software that they can use. And you can use those 10 shops to, you know, build a customer base and show revenue, show profit, show all that stuff. And then you can sell the 10 auto repair shops or or sell the software company first, but, but when you sell the software company at a much higher multiple, because it's tech, and it was very little barrier to entry, because you started it, and it's almost like start having an established business already, because you bought the other ones and A cluster. So that was the idea there, that just wouldn't have to pay taxes on it so high multiple business that's sold with very little tax obligation. Wow.

Speaker 5  49:12
Yeah, this is nice. So basically, it only works if it's a small business right under 5 million, and since you have two partners up to 10 million, right? Yeah.

Speaker 1  49:24
And there he, I didn't get into the specifics, but there's a certain there's certain way it has to be a certain type of entity. It has to meet their kind of a rigid roadmap of formation and then operation to qualify. Yeah.

Speaker 5  49:41
I think I did watch probably yesterday at Tiktok, and the guy said that because he missed the step while doing the LLC formation. And there is a check mark, you know, like under IRS forms that you have to. Check it like, if it's a small, if it is a small business, and he didn't, and because of that, he has to pay higher taxes, yeah. So it could be, I'm not sure if it's related to that, yeah,

Speaker 1  50:11
might be, maybe I don't this is, this is a new thing to me, because I haven't been, you know, he's, he, he's actually started multiple businesses, so, yeah, and tech companies. So that's kind of, that's how he's made his money. Okay? Thanks for sharing. Yeah, when I get more information about that, I'll definitely let everybody know. We'll see. It's gonna be hard to find 10 repair shops. And, you know, I mean, it's hard enough to find one, I don't know that's gonna be tough, right? And that would have to be expand, that would have to be multi state. That's the only way to do that.

Unknown Speaker  50:46
But it's a good exit strategy, right? Like in the long term, right?

Speaker 1  50:49
Yeah, well, he was thinking about five years. Yeah, yeah. I mean that. That was his idea make money both by growing the auto repair shops, and just in general, how much they make, plus the home run of the software business, yeah, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  51:10
yeah, go ahead.

Speaker 2  51:13
So would this be limited to only auto repair shop, or

Unknown Speaker  51:17
no, just it's all

Speaker 1  51:20
the software company. So it could be 10 plumbing shops. If there's a certain type of software that you could come up with for plumbing shops that's different from job or one of the common ones that they all use, you could do the same thing there, just it would have to be related industry businesses that you were catering to. It could be landscaping. You know, there's a lot of landscaping software, some of it's good, some of it's not good. So you could, you know, you could do that as well.

Unknown Speaker  51:52
Yeah, and the magic numbers, 10,

Speaker 1  51:56
no, no. That's just his estimate on what would produce enough revenue for the software company to put it at a high enough revenue that you get up by multiple when you sell, Okay, gotcha.

Speaker 2  52:15
Certainly give us, give us more scope when you know more about the strategy,

Unknown Speaker  52:22
never enough.

Unknown Speaker  52:34
Okay, anybody else got any anything?

Speaker 8  52:39
I just wanted to share something really quick. So I kind of feel like I've been going in circles these past two weeks with just emailing the brokers, them not responding, or they're like, email me back, you know, five to 10 times just to set up a call to get any type of information, because they're not releasing the NDAs without screening people now, so I've been doing that. Well. Anyway, yesterday, I had one offer to call me on a business that was already she told me it already had an LOI, but she still wanted to talk to me. So I was like, okay, whatever. Just phone her to talk, right? So I talked to her today, and we really hit it off. We ended up talking for like 45 minutes, and she actually just closed on a medical business that I would have been very interested in, but she had listed it like in January before I was even looking but she also told me that the seller has three other friends who she referred to this broker, and they all want to sell in the next six to nine months, and it's the exact same type of business, and they're all retiring. They're mostly nurses and social workers, and you have to be a nurse to buy this business. So she has me down as like a prospective buyer, and told me like she would stay in contact with me to let me know any updates on these that are going to be coming up. So I just wanted to, you know, tell people it never hurts to talk to the broker. Even though you think that the business is sold. They're always have other opportunities coming up.

Speaker 1  54:25
Yeah, networking, yes. So I've passed on on deals from multiple brokers that now send me similar deals all the time. They will call me. There's been a few of them that were just one, one broker in particular. He's a really good guy. I forget his name's Tom, but everything he has is far away. It's, it's like, right on the state line, and I just, it's just too far away. It's outside of where as I don't want to travel that far. But he constantly has decent deals that he still reaches out to me about, and all stemming. From it was, like two years ago. We had a conversation, and I got some financials, and I signed an NDA, and I've been on file, and he reaches out to me every single time you that's you get, yeah,

Speaker 8  55:12
it kind of sounds like the same situation, like this broker has her stuff, like, so together, like, I told my husband that I'm like, I've never, I've yet. I've talked to so many, and I've yet to talk to one who was this organized. And she's like, Yeah, I have my own database, and I sort you by category, and like, what your background is in and like, she was just so helpful. And she was like, Look, even if you don't end up buying a business with me, if you find someone from someone else, please call me, because I have, like, the best lenders, like, base per like, on category of what you're going to do. So and I mean, she sounded like she really knew what she was talking about. And she was like, yeah, like 95% of my deals are SBA funded. So I was like, you know, that'd be perfect for me, because that's what I'm trying to what I'm trying to do for my first business.

Speaker 1  56:06
Yeah, nice. That's, that's definitely a win. You know, you stack a couple of brokers like that. You won't have anything to worry about. You'll, you'll eventually, yeah, you'll get one before it's listed.

Unknown Speaker  56:19
Yes, hopefully just

Speaker 1  56:20
that conversation now she knows that you're you're serious, that you're competent, that you know you can probably close a deal, and that's more than she knows about anybody that ever reaches out on biz, buy, sell. So, yeah, it's awesome.

Speaker 8  56:38
Yes, so yay. Even though the business has an LOI. I still feel like I had a win this week, and

Speaker 1  56:44
maybe it'll fall through. You don't, right? Maybe the person that's considering buying it right now that's in due diligence, maybe they can't. Yeah, definitely. And, you know, so the once you get and you then you'll meet the lender, right? You'll get a relationship with the lender, which will streamline that process too. So we just recently did the so we pretty much ironed out terms, but I hadn't even talked to my lender in a month about the current acquisition. I called him yesterday, and I sent him the financials, and in two hours, I was funded. He said. He said, Yeah, we're good. We'll sign the papers Thursday, and you can pick up the check, or I'll bring it to you. He actually brings me a cashier's check that I take to the acquisition table. So after a while, those things, just these little wins right now like that, stack up, and a year from now, you'll have a whole network of people. That's how it works. That's cool.

Speaker 5  58:13
The recent SBA changes that it passed the one it's supposed to start in June 1, right? Yeah, it's all okay, cool. Yeah, a bit more difficult, right? Yeah, for that new people like us, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  58:30
It just means that you, you got to bring that down payment, basically full 10% from somewhere. That's the main thing. There's some things that help though, before there were some hardcore restrictions on what, what the SBA would consider legitimate financials. So that's a little bit different. They're a lot more lenient. There doesn't have to be from a CPA, like you can it can be directly from QuickBooks. You know, they'll, they'll look at that now, which they they weren't looking at those before.

Unknown Speaker  59:05
But that's about, isn't about the only one that's better.

Speaker 5  59:08
But the good thing is, it's gonna be less competition, right?

Speaker 1  59:11
Absolutely, yeah, yeah. A lot of the people that were, you know, just burning out brokers, which makes it difficult, like Brooke was saying, now you can't even sign an NDA before you talk to somebody, for that reason. So, yeah, hopefully that that'll, that'll slow people down. Yeah, it might be the Tick Tock effect. I don't know.

Speaker 5  59:36
Who knows? I think because of the koji Sanchez all the like laundromats and car washes became so expensive, right? So it doesn't even make sense like to purchase because they are overpriced.

Speaker 1  59:57
And there's also a. Another lady. Her name's, I think it's Brooke, that's all about laundromats. And she's, she's teaching laundromats so that, and she's got a bunch of people in her group that that's all they're looking for, is laundromats, laundromats, laundromats. Pace morby. Pace morby, who's the real estate, you know, mogul, basically the king of sub two financing. He's pivoted. He's doing business acquisitions with car washes, laundromats. Yeah, that's like, one of the things he's pushing. That's why I don't know just same thing with self storage. Like I don't even, I don't even, I used to look for self storage all the time to see if one would come up. Because my, my thought was, you find one that, again, a baby boomer, that they don't have technology, you know, because now you go to self storage, you don't have to talk to anybody, you know, the you get in through a code in the gate, and it's, it's ready for you. You put the lock on there, and you're gone. You pay online. Like, that was, that was, I was like, okay, I can automate all of that stuff, take one, an old one, and modernize it. But everyone I look at is just 2520 25% more than it should be listed for, and that's because everybody wants them. So I just kind of gave up on that.

Speaker 5  1:01:21
What about the like Airbnb business? Do you invest, like in a you buy existing building, or have you started from scratch, like buying a land and building a No, right?

Speaker 1  1:01:35
No, I haven't. I thought about doing the tiny home thing on but that only really works, like as a cabin situation on some water or in campgrounds kind of thing. But no, I would much rather like if you if you get a single family home that otherwise wouldn't work as a long term rental. You know, there's so many benefits to doing that, like if I was going to buy land and then build that's a big expense to put down. And there's a, you know, a lot of time invested. My main strategy for the short term rentals is for the tax benefits. It's not for the profit. So older homes work the best, you know, something with good bones that you can go in there and and pretty cheaply fix it up and make it look really nice that it's the ultimate that's the top return on investment, at least for that strategy. There are a lot of people that right now, though, are building multifamily. There's a lot of lot of multifamily being built, especially in Texas, like, I think Austin has more multifamily being built there than anywhere in the US, and they're worried that they're building so much that it's going to tank the rents.

Speaker 5  1:02:52
So I think it's down, like 20% 22% really, yeah, the competition is very high, and a lot of landlords offering, like, three months for the rent. Also, there is a, like, huge inventory for the homes are for sale. Like, it's crazy friends, they selling homes and they couldn't sell it. Like, been, like, few months on the market, still on sale. So Texas market, it's way different, I guess, compared to other states, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:03:26
yeah, well, and everybody has those, you know, a lot of people have those two and 3% mortgage rates and nobody wants to sell. That's the cheapest money you're ever going to get. Yeah, yeah. Okay, thanks. Points, okay.
