Speaker 1  00:01
Okay, hey everybody. So what I want to go over right now, this is for the business acquisition side, is I just want to search for some businesses and just kind of go through the process. Some of you may have seen this already, but like, it's, I think it's beneficial to do it in a live setting. So what I'm going to do, I'm just going to share my screen, and I'm going to see what we can find here. So what I'm actually looking for is, let's, let's try to find a home service business. And let's, let's, you try the easy one

Unknown Speaker  00:45
biz, buy, sell.

Unknown Speaker  00:54
So let's, I

Speaker 1  00:55
don't know, I picked Illinois last time. Let's go like Kentucky or something. Okay, Kentucky, I'll go ahead and search. And what I always do is I go to the more filters, and I will first I'm going to hide them without a price, because I don't want to deal with that. Why wouldn't they put the price there? They're either way overpriced or they're hiding something. So no thanks. I'm I don't usually put must have seller financing. And the reason for that is because a lot of times you can negotiate it, and I don't want to miss out on like a screaming good deal if it doesn't have owner financing. So I don't require real estate. Actually, it kind of messes up the numbers. Otherwise I can. I'll have to show you how to analyze one with real estate that's something that you're actually into. So relocatable listings, no, no, and I don't want franchises. That's not my thing. I'm not saying it's a bad thing, but for me, I would prefer not to have franchises. I like to be able to do my own thing. I've been doing long enough where I don't want someone telling me what to do.

Unknown Speaker  02:11
Okay, let's see what we got,

Speaker 1  02:14
gas station. I'm not a big gas station person. The reason why is because, you know, they don't make much money on gas? Did you guys know that? So they make, like, I don't know. It's like, one to two cents a gallon, where they're making their their money and their margins are high, is if they can get you to come inside and, you know, buy, you know, overpriced sodas and beer and cigarettes and stuff like that. So I'm not really big on the on the gas stations. Okay, there's a cool Stone Creamery. I love those places, but it's seasonal restaurant. Let's actually go industries here. Let's try to service business first, see what we got and well, let's, let's widen it a little bit service and automotive. We don't find anything in or we can always look at construction too. That's another good one. Pressure power wash company, the numbers look good. I get back to Illinois, I just put Kentucky in there. Weird.

Unknown Speaker  03:30
Okay, there we go. Insurance, restoration company that's a big one,

Unknown Speaker  03:40
cleaning business,

Unknown Speaker  03:44
stained glass,

Unknown Speaker  03:49
commercial sign, vehicle wrap,

Speaker 1  03:54
concrete. Those are, those are pretty good multiples, right there. Let's look at the concrete.

Unknown Speaker  04:01
Okay, so

Speaker 1  04:02
they're looking to get 360 the cash flow is 150 that's looking really good. Ooh, established in 2021 Nope, that is a no. I mean, anyone that started a business in 2021 they were starting with PPP loans and all that stuff through covid. And it's just, it's not something that you just can't rely on. Those numbers I need to see. I would like to see numbers from before, like pre covid.

Unknown Speaker  04:35
Okay, flowers, bread, root. I

Speaker 1  04:46
a gas station, portable toilet out that doesn't have

Unknown Speaker  04:51
the cash flow that's no good

Speaker 1  04:58
lot of bread roots. Is party planning, automotive paint franchise, but again, no cash flow. There's a funeral home, you know that's recession resistant. You have to be careful with places like this. A lot of times you have to be certified, and you can't just buy them in a lot of states, so you have to research that stuff first. We have a little one here, Arnold and bimbo bread root,

Unknown Speaker  05:33
power washing.

Speaker 1  05:36
There's a good one. Let's look at the power washing with the recurring commercial contracts. Oh, okay. 1990 been around for a while. So it makes 316,000

Unknown Speaker  05:46
a year, and they only want 295,

Speaker 1  05:49
so why is that? Why would you ask for less than the cash flow? So let's, let's analyze this a little bit more. 30 years they do hospitals, apartment complexes, using drones. So they're, you know, they've got some technology, an experienced team,

Unknown Speaker  06:16
two employees,

Speaker 1  06:19
they're buying a job. Now, that's fine. If you don't mind buying a job for $316,000 that's pretty good. I mean, if you can, you can put, you know, $30,000 down. And, you know, make several $100,000 a year. That's better than your average job. So if you're actually fine with working 40 hours in a place like that, like this, that earns you that much money, then this might be, might be something to look for. All the inventory is included. I don't understand why it's so cheap, if it truly is making as much money. But if you don't mind working, you know, like 40 hours, this might be a go. Okay, there's one possibility. You all right, well, we got long established big earner, SBA pre approved. You know what? SBA pre approved means absolutely nothing, because you still have to keep approved anyway, but that means at some point the numbers were good enough to approve it. At first glance, I don't think it's good unless it's got real estate included. It does okay

Unknown Speaker  07:29
for one thing. Let me just say this. You know, the the rule of

Speaker 1  07:33
thumb is cash flow times three needs to be greater than the asking price, right? This still works at this number. When you get to like, 1.7 million, the system changes. So just keep that in mind. If you're trying to buy a really huge business, you have to tweak the numbers. So something like this with real estate included. The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to analyze it without the business at all, or, excuse me, without the real estate at all,

Unknown Speaker  08:03
without the real estate at all, it's a $400,000

Speaker 1  08:06
business, and it cash flows 383, so that looks awesome. Now there's $100,000 of FF and E that may or may not. Okay, so it looks like it's included. Real Estate's available for a million. Oh, they might want another million on top of that, so the real estate's not included. So, so this deal probably isn't any good because of these numbers, but you you have the potential of getting a million dollars in real estate been pre approved by an SBA lender with 10% down or even

Unknown Speaker  08:45
less down. Believe that

Speaker 1  08:49
zero down if you're already in the business, yeah, if you already work for this business, what even is this? It's auto repair shop. It doesn't really tell you anything about it. Okay, six bays, ample parking, some competition, room to expand. Owner is not a mechanic looking to go in a different direction. Hmm, yeah. I mean, I own auto repair shops. I'm not a mechanic. What's that matter? I'm a business owner. Yeah, so, oh, it's and it's a franchise. Hmm, I don't know there's a there's a lot going on here. I might look further into that, but there's a lot of red flags. You know, buying a business is not like getting a getting real estate, you know, where you're looking for something close to what you want. No, you need to get the exact thing that you want. You have to be, you know, adaptable, yes, but you're not settling, right? Think about buying a business like you. You know finding your spouse, don't settle, because you're not going to be happy and you're going to regret it. Make sure you get the right person or the right business painting. Hmm. I and two three painters. Yeah, that doesn't include all the information. So not enough, not enough to make an educated decision on that one, spray insulation that is probably a good, boring business, right there, established in 2012

Unknown Speaker  10:46
they want seven for

Unknown Speaker  10:47
it. Cash flow is 468,

Speaker 1  10:50
now this is one of those businesses that is super boring. You see a box truck that says whatever, you know, Haas and peppers, insulation on the side of it, and you don't think twice about it, but it's making a lot of money. So 48% new construction, 42% residential, 10% commercial. It's a good spread.

Unknown Speaker  11:15
It's been around for 25 years.

Speaker 1  11:20
High customer retention, five employees, includes the FF and inventory, which I saw, something about a box. Okay, there's a Yeah, f7 50 box truck, a Dodge Ram, plus equipment, technology and inventory. Okay? Third party financing available so they've already talked to a bank or a private lender, okay? This is a good one. This is a, this is not bad, right here. This is, this is what I mean by service industry. No matter what is going on, people are going to need insulation. They're, you know, houses are going to be built. Houses are built all the time. There's a housing shortage right now. It's going to be a shortage for years to come. So you could possibly get into this one for 70 grand. Let's see. Yeah, this, this would go on my short list. So this one, this particular video, all we're doing is we're just going to look at some possibilities. So the next video I'll do is going to be to actually analyze them with the spreadsheet. The spreadsheet is really the definitive guide to tell you whether or not it's good right now, we're just kind of just eyeing it to see okay, but that's a good one. I like that one a lot. Commercial landscape maintenance. That's another good one. Installer upon and fountain landscape products. This would be, this is what I mean by it's very recession. You know, it's the opposite of recession resistant. It's recession sensitive. One of the first things people are going to do is not get a fancy pond, if, if the economy turns. So I'd be a little leery of that Moving and Hauling like junk removal company, yeah, but there's no cash flow bending root. That's a nice, cheap 110 machine vending route. Let's look at that. Okay, ooh, if they just got all this going in 2022, why would you sell it right now, unless there's something going on, relocating out of the area, yeah, maybe. So it's one person or one person only, so you'd be working it, okay, 10 hours a week for an extra 60 grand. This would be a hard no for me. This is a lot of work too. Yeah, I wouldn't or any part of that.

Unknown Speaker  14:06
Taylor recycling center,

Speaker 1  14:14
lots of breads. What was going on in Kentucky? Towing and recovery, high tech vending, auto paint shop. Let's look at this. One 600,000

Unknown Speaker  14:30
does not say the cash flow,

Speaker 1  14:34
real estate. They don't they put $1 they don't want to say how much it is. That's weird. So there's two buildings on the property. Great turnkey opportunity, continue business or grow your own. Doesn't say when it was established. It says nothing.

Unknown Speaker  14:52
No, you got to give me some information and go off of this by so.

Unknown Speaker  15:00
Commercial Cleaning. Oh, look at that. 240, 1999,

Speaker 1  15:09
okay, five employees, full training. Okay, so. Obviously great margins. You have to see what's going on. There might be buying yourself a job, but that's a good one,

Unknown Speaker  15:33
educational business.

Speaker 1  15:40
So far, the only one I really liked was the insulation. Okay, so, yeah, but we just looked a little bit none of those necessarily said absentee owner. You can go here and you can put must allow absentee owner see what we get there.

Unknown Speaker  16:06
None of those.

Speaker 1  16:09
Yeah, just the vending machine. And we know that vending machine is actually 10 hours a week. They consider that absentee. I don't Okay, so let's, let's keep looking service, businesses, retail, let's try building in construction, see what we got there.

Unknown Speaker  16:33
Okay, Kentucky is a little rough right now.

Unknown Speaker  16:45
Using personal care.

Unknown Speaker  16:48
There's a spa,

Speaker 1  16:59
dry cleaners that's got real estate included though eyelash studio. Okay, let's see eyelash studio. $35,000 cash flow. I mean, so it's, it meets our rule.

Unknown Speaker  17:15
Just started in 2022,

Speaker 1  17:20
it's an eyelash studio franchise. I don't know that. I don't know much about this one, but ladies out there, you might know more about this than me, but that's that is definitely red flag that 2022

Unknown Speaker  17:33
for employees could may or may not,

Speaker 1  17:41
seller not to compete within three number years. So they'll give you one week of training for free. Reason for selling personal, the lease is coming up, coming due pretty soon. So there'd be a lot to digest here that I'm not saying that it's, you know, definitely a no go. I mean, if they if this seller has actually some reason for selling that that makes sense. But this is, like I said, don't settle guys, you know, don't get caught up like, Oh, I love eyelashes. And, you know, pull the trigger on this without really getting into it. Okay, what else was let's try manufacturing. Industrial repair has terrible margins, but it has real estate, huh? Okay, so I guess it's looking like the only thing we saw that was even possible was the non absentee

Unknown Speaker  19:11
service business

Unknown Speaker  19:15
insulation. So let's go back and look at that again.

Unknown Speaker  19:20
Spray foam. No, that's not it

Unknown Speaker  19:30
hungry. Where was it? There's roofing.

Speaker 1  19:45
Four bodies, funerals,

Unknown Speaker  19:52
land clearing.

Unknown Speaker  20:02
Okay, both in here somewhere.

Speaker 1  20:16
Okay. Now I don't know why we didn't see these earlier, but we've got heating and air conditioning

Unknown Speaker  20:21
commercial landscaping,

Speaker 1  20:25
plumbing, oh, my god, doesn't say the cash flow,

Unknown Speaker  20:32
but yeah,

Speaker 1  20:37
plumbing is a cash cow. Okay? No

Unknown Speaker  20:45
law firm. Where are we at? Where are we at?

Unknown Speaker  20:51
Existing plumbing,

Unknown Speaker  20:55
towing and recovery?

Unknown Speaker  21:14
It. So here's what we can do when you can't find it.

Unknown Speaker  21:18
More filters, keyword, insulation. It was this,

Unknown Speaker  21:31
the one we looked at had cash flow.
