Speaker 1  00:00
Go ahead. Yeah. So I've been a mechanic pretty much my whole life. I've been a diesel mechanic. I was working for a franchise dealership, which is in the trucking industry. I did that for about the last 20 years in 2005 to recently, 2020 November of 24 and so there were some changes in the structure of the company, so I couldn't continue partner with them. So I just went on my own based, you know, considering the experience that I already have in the field. And so instead of working for another dealership, I just wanted to take the opportunity to work for my own right. I came across a commercial building that was available at a reasonable price based on the area. So I did take the lease, and right now, I'm currently working on actually setting everything forward and setting the structure to actually build a shop. And so so like the niche that I want to that I want to implement is basically maintenance, maintenance and road service for commercial vehicles and fleets like medium sized trucks to all the way to heavy trucks. And what I'm also factoring in is that the the the building, it's really close in the vicinity of Los Angeles, and it's really, really close to the LA Airport, which is the International Airport. So I'm surrounded by a lot of commercial fleets, right? So, so that's kind of the the idea that I'm trying to target. But like, like, I guess the,

Unknown Speaker  01:44
I guess the difficulty is like

Speaker 1  01:47
setting myself to changing the mindset from being an actual mechanic to actually being the the, you know, the organizer, the manager, the financial keeper, and all this stuff. So I'm kind of going through that process right now, and it's just, you know, it's kind of challenging. I currently don't have any employees, so I'm kind of shuffling between like, like managing the appointments, trying to do the work myself, and then at the same time, like trying to, I'm trying to get to that point where I could, I could build a steady, a steady customer flow. That way I could really set back and then get get some guys to help me, like hire some some mechanics to help me. That way I could oversee the the operation and actually focus on marketing right and then go after the targeted fleets, but ultimately, my, my, my set goal will be to go after commercial fleets and sign contracts with them.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
So, okay, how are you getting customers now?

Speaker 1  02:52
Um, so, so right now, since it's kind of, I'm really, really in the early stage, I think I'm almost doing like my 28 day in business,

Unknown Speaker  03:03
some of word of mouth. And then I started with the

Speaker 1  03:07
I paid somebody to build me a website. And then right now, I'm actually going through the Google profile so to do ads on Google, yeah, okay.

Speaker 2  03:21
Are you a certified mechanic? Yes. Okay, so if you get one of the one of the best things you can do is get Google verified. So if you get Google verified, regardless of what the business is, so if you, if you think about when you search for whatever service in your area, the first thing that comes up is the Google verified list. Then you get the sponsored sites, and then you get just the regular Google business profile. But the verified you have to show proof of your certifications. You have to show proof of, like your insured, you know, things like that, like, you have to be legit. There's going to be a background check, like that kind of stuff and but it puts you toward the top of that list, which definitely helps, you know, because you're doing mainly diesel, right? That's going to be the plan.

Speaker 1  04:09
So, so initially, yeah, like that was the target. But one of the issues that I face is that, when I did acquire the dislocation, this location, this this building location has is a shop with two base but it doesn't really have the the footprint to house a big semi truck with the tractor trailer, right? So, so, so, so, based on that, since I don't have the footprint right now, it kind of, I kind of restructured the strategy where I'm only going to focus on on medium duty vehicles, such as, such as cargo vans, pickup trucks that are diesel and that sort of stuff. So, so that's kind of like my projection right now, that I'm only going to focus on that type of work until I get some revenue, and then later on, once the work, the money flow, starts coming in, then I'm going to, I'm going to. That up so I could go and do mobile service to the big fleets like to send my trucks and doing as as mobile repair on site. So, yeah, that's kind of what, what I'm working on right now. The other thing I just did right now was I just partnered up with Mitchell. I did their, their, their, their, what is it? They're, they're operating platform software for for work orders and and repair support. I also partnered with one of my parts distributor, which is a rally, and I did a shop out sponsored program through them, that way, some of the customers could actually be referred to me, since I am a local shop, along alongside of them. And, yeah, so, like, that's, that's kind of what I'm working through. I also, I also just signed up for commercial insurance for liability and and so, so I think I did, like, like a million and then an extra, like, some extra coverage, just in case something happens right, to give the customer some some assurance if something goes wrong, then I could actually honor, honor some of the repairs. And then that way, you know, they feel a little bit more confident that, like, I'm, I'm a legit distance.

Speaker 2  06:22
So you Is there a reason why you pick Mitchell? Did you have experience using Mitchell software instead of like shot monkey or the other ones?

Speaker 1  06:31
No, so, so. So the reason why I chose Mitchell because I did, I did compare like shot monkey and

Unknown Speaker  06:39
a couple of the other like, like

Speaker 1  06:43
identifies and stuff like that. But since I'm kind of in the field where, like, the vehicles that I'm going to be working as, like medium duty all the way to heavy duty right now, Mitch is the only one that offers it. I did try it another platform, which is diesel laptops that they only specify on diesel equipment. But their, their platform wasn't really like, like, user friendly. And I couldn't, I couldn't quite interact with it as far as like, like, whenever we see smaller vehicles at a lower weight rating and like, I just, like, it didn't have that capability, so it was going to end up paying for two separate subscriptions and and right now, like, I kind of bundled up with the metro, and I have, it's going to give me the coverage for automotive coverage, medium duty and then heavy duty. So it's gonna, it's kind of like a one fit, all right?

Speaker 2  07:40
So, yeah, okay, yeah, that's cool. So your biggest obstacle is going to be customer acquisition. That's always the biggest obstacle on a startup. Like, it's the biggest risk, it's the biggest cost, because you're, you know, whether you advertise or you're reaching out, like, but you've been in the so you were mechanic for all those years in the same area. Are you still in the same area?

Speaker 1  08:05
Yes, I'm in the same area. So my scope of work when I was at the dealership was between Carson Fontana and greater area of Los Angeles, which is the ports like the Long Beach Wilmington. I wanted to be, I wanted to place myself in that area, but I just couldn't afford it, because it was like the hub of commercial trucking, so I just couldn't afford it. So like, the next most reasonable place that I found was this one, which is closest to to the International Airport, which actually brings a lot of commercial traffic, right? So I think that's not a bad area, you know, I just gotta make sure that I target the right customers,

Speaker 2  08:47
okay, yeah, even if you reach out to places that you worked in the past and just, you know, use your network right now, because your network them is free, you know, like, Hey, you're, are you turning any work away, you know, are there any jobs that you don't want to deal with? I'll take those, you know, because at this point, beggars can't be choosers, right? You just want as much word of mouth you want to just paying customers in and, you know, with that experience, I would imagine there's probably nothing that you can't handle at this point, you know, yeah.

Speaker 1  09:20
And then I guess, I guess it's like, again, it's like, kind of setting, the mentality set correctly. But I do, I do have, I do have some strong relationships with some, with some, some of my old customers there are in large fleets. But I guess, I guess right now, at the at the early stage that I am right now. I feel that if I reach out, I might I'm afraid to under deliver. That's kind of my, my, you know, my thing, because I still don't have, I still need to build up my my mobile service truck, and like, I'm not there yet, because I still need a little bit more cash flow to make it happen. So my, my biggest horror. Know, I guess, I guess it's, it's fun, it's funny, because I need the money to get those, those assets ready, right? Like a commercial truck with the air compressor, with all the big equipment and and, like, I'm, I'm in between covering the lease rent and then keeping the lights on, and then also investing on the equipment to go and do it. So, so, yeah, I'm going to have to figure out something where I could, I could, like, like, credit, credit stack or something to get me there, you know?

Speaker 2  10:29
I mean, it's definitely a possibility. You know, there's a lot of people that do that. I was just talking to some people locally that were like, hey, we want to start a handyman service. You know, we want a truck. And all the we were starting from, from square one, what's, you know, what's a way to get all that stuff? And I was kind of explaining what capital stacking was, and they're like, Oh, really. So I don't know they're gonna, I think they're gonna try to do on their own, which is probably gonna be a disaster, but I properly warn them, so they'll know the risk when they get in there. But yeah, yeah, it's definitely possible. But you know, at the same time you're you're getting a lot of business funding and not necessarily having the customers to be able to back it up correct, you have to time it out pretty carefully. But as far as I was saying, like reaching out. I just meant, just like individual people or really small companies that maybe you've worked with in the past that wouldn't necessarily have a fleet, maybe they have one trucks. May, you know, just, just to get some revenue coming in, you know, to keep, don't keep those lights on, keep that lease paid, that kind of stuff, but yeah, it's, you know, one of the the biggest challenges, and what, what causes most startups to fail is lack of funding. That's like, the lack of lack of capital and access to capital is the biggest hurdle for everybody starting. So, well, it's exciting, though, right? That's cool. Are you like, half excited and half scared,

Speaker 1  12:10
a little bit of everything, you know, like, I mean, I I try to keep myself as positive and try to be as more positive as I can't, you know, but you know, like, like, it worries me because, like, now I have to figure out how I'm going to cover for my home expenses, my mortgage, my family, and then at the same time, like, I need to make sure that this business kicks off, you know, so it's, it's, yeah, it's a little bit overwhelming, but you know, like, I'm just, I'm just trying To take a chunk and a bite every single day, you know, do the best I can. And so hopefully, I am surrounded

Unknown Speaker  12:50
near about. I'm surrounded

Speaker 1  12:55
around a lot of people that are they have trust in me, and they they see the potential, and they also encourage me, which is good, you know, I started doing like, like knocking doors nearby, like my neighbors that I have, like the businesses that are near, but near me. So one of my first customers was one of my neighbors. They actually have a a cabinet factory. They build cabinets for, like, kitchens and stuff. So he ended up having two, two cargo vans and then one tractor. So I started, I started doing their maintenance on those, and then that kind of got me through the first month or March, you know, so, so, like, that's one solid customer. So, you know, like, I just,

Speaker 2  13:38
you gotta start somewhere. But, like, definitely, definitely use your network. You might not, not your big players yet, but the little ones, you know, you just, just anything, whether it oil changes, it doesn't really matter, just as long as they're coming there and they're paying, because that'll also help you when you go to get funding, if you want to go get funding traditional route, you can show, you know, I've got 90 days of this, these kind of revenues, and I would like to grow, and you can get a business line of credit. You can get, you can get loans specifically geared toward equipment and vehicles, right?

Speaker 1  14:14
And another thing, like, I don't, I don't know if anybody out there has has come across that, but another things that I've been researching and kind of looking and trying to make it work, I kind of partner with the stripe for payment processing, because I know they have, like, a method that, like, depending on the amount of transactions that you have, they'll, they'll facilitate some some some funding, right? But I guess right now, like one of the, uh, of

Unknown Speaker  14:43
the issues that I run into is that

Speaker 1  14:46
the platform itself, from stripe, when it comes down to invoices and sending out invoices, they're not as the templates that are not as break itemized, right? And kind of in the automotive industry, that's kind of what we. Have. So I'm kind of having an issue connecting the two, like trying to create an invoice on, on us, on a software platform, and then trying to expedite it to to to make the end payment through strike, to actually get the benefit of it. Yeah. So, so, like, kind of merging the two is kind of where I'm kind of stuck right now. I'm trying to get around it and figure out how to make them link.

Speaker 2  15:26
Yeah, it's stripes, great. You know, they're going to take their, you know, their cut, which, which, that kind of sucks, but, but, yeah, it opens up everything. The financial reporting is great. And, yeah, you can definitely get funding through them, but a lot of times you have to be in business for a certain amount of time, so it's going to be difficult to get the kind of fun because how much funding would you need to get that truck and equipment? Like, what are you thinking? What's your number?

Speaker 1  15:57
Well, I had a truck that I bid it on on the option, but the price kind of went a little bit higher than I expected, and, like, almost $50,000 like, if I was to buy one that's already fully done,

Unknown Speaker  16:09
it would cost me around $80,000 right?

Speaker 1  16:13
So, so in terms of, like, right now, I'm kind of relying on using, like, an older truck and and then kind of building it myself, like putting the transfer tanks, the pumps, the air compressor, the plumbing, all that stuff. So, so I think it's probably going to cost me about 60, around, probably about 30,000 to build it myself. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  16:40
Do you ever look at purple wave?

Unknown Speaker  16:43
I have not. I did a

Speaker 1  16:47
I did went through one that's called a credit key, and they but, like, the the amount was in large, they only credit me for 3000 and that's because, like, my business has only been in business for almost a month, so I really don't have that type of credit. And then as far as like on my personal credit, I think my my credit, debt to ratio is a little bit higher. I think I'm more like on the 60 like on a 60% above a 60% so I kind of need to to figure out a way to to to lower the the debt to ratio that I have to be able to open up some some credit or build Goody,

Speaker 2  17:26
yeah, well, purple wave is just a place where you can get equipment for cheap. It's an auction place and get, you know, anything from small trucks to big trucks to semis, backos, you know, whatever they have all that stuff. Gov deals is another one. So you'd be getting surplus and aging equipment from cities and states. You might have to drive outside of California to get a good deal, but it would be worth it if you can, you know, if you can drive to, say, Arizona and get, you know, something for a third of the price that you pay him for in California, it would be totally worth it, but that's another place like, I we've, we've used gov deals to get equipment, like, especially landscaping equipment, bobcats like that. It's, it's great. It's a great place for that, but as long as you can work on it and know that it's already been used quite a bit, but that's, that's a good way to, maybe to cut your costs, but, yeah, stripe is probably going to be the way to go, or, or capital stacking if you want something soon. Otherwise you're going to have to probably do a slow build and just, and

Speaker 1  18:37
it's going to take money, right? Like, yeah, memberships and, and, like, getting small loans and trying to pay them back, like it's, you know, accelerated So, yeah,

Speaker 2  18:52
yeah. I mean, you could get an SBA loan. You already own it. You can get one of the small ones, which is the Express, did you? Did you get any loan? Have you have any loans right now?

Speaker 1  19:03
Um, so, so right now? Oh, another thing that I just started doing, like, like, since last week, I did, I did partner with a local nonprofit here locally, and they're connected with the SBA, so they were able to approve me for a $3,000 just to start off. And so, so I kind of already got that and and so I'm breaking down the payments so that way I could open up some credit, you know. So I already did that. And then the other thing too, like, right now, I'm currently, I'm signing up with my local, my local county, because I'm trying to, I'm trying to certify under the SBA so that I could do government contract with them, with them, so that I could, I'm trying to see if I could actually do some maintenance for some of the local agencies on some of their equipment. So that's another, another thing that I'm currently working on right now.

Unknown Speaker  19:57
Okay, nice. I. I mean, congratulations, you're a business owner,

Unknown Speaker  20:03
right? Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  20:05
Now the pain begins, right?

Unknown Speaker  20:09
Yeah, but that That's cool, man, that's, that's really awesome.

Speaker 2  20:14
If you, yeah, if you need any help, like setting up Google ads or like, just navigating that, just let me know, like it's a pain in the ass, Google ads and but they can work, and they can bring in leads, but it's difficult to get them set up the right way, and the help is terrible. And they do. They say they're going to, you know, they have support, and they're going to help you set it up. They don't. They'll set up an appointment and never call you, never honor the appointments. It's like, that's just how they are so, but yeah, if you need any help with that, just let me know. And that might be something we can do on a class too, possibly, but, but yeah, I'm sure you're going to have to advertise at some point. You're going to have to think about how you're going to get leads. Yeah, there are ways to get leads, but you pretty much every, almost every route that gets you leads that are meaningful cost money,

Unknown Speaker  21:11
whether it's Angie's leads or Google ads or

Speaker 2  21:16
Facebook ads or Instagram ads, what you know, it all adds up quickly, you know, like we were advertising just in one of the businesses, it was like $600 a day, you know. And that wasn't even, that's not even hardcore advertising, that was just in general, that adds up quickly.

Speaker 1  21:37
Yeah, yeah, I know it's, it's, it's kind of difficult, like, like another things that, one of the things that I also did, like this, this previous days, like, I ordered some banners on, like mister print with the phone number, and some of the services that I provide, another, another, the things that I think right now it's kind of hard in my area, here in Southern California, It's, it's the new mandate for California, California Air Resources Board, which I did, I did have a certification to do small check on the on those vehicles, right? So, so I threw banners on the main crossing streets that have a lot of traffic, and that's kind of directing a little bit of more, more trucks my way that actually need to have that small test done to to get to get their registration in order right to be compliant. So, so I'm also reaching out to two to two agencies that do nothing but registration for commercial vehicles. And I'm, you know, I'm giving out my cars to them, and they're also, they're also a good point of reference, you know, to send me business because they are dealing with truckers that actually need some mock checks done for the registration. So, yeah, that's another, another reference that I'm working on. But, yeah, like, I mean, it's, it's, it's a, like, I said, I mean, it's, it's, it's taking some time to get it to to work, but I think, I think it'll be okay. Like, it looks like it's looking promising.

Speaker 2  23:14
So nice. Well, that that's super cool, because so now we have somebody with a startup, you know, working on a startup in the community too. So, you know, a lot of the same this, the same issues come up, whether you buy a business or you start, you know, dealing with employees, dealing with hiring. At some point you're going to be hiring people and payroll and, you know, all that stuff. So you'll be figuring that out for yourself. But it's definitely doable, and you know you're, you're entering into it with decades of experience in that industry, so that's going to help a lot,

Speaker 1  23:52
a lot Awesome. Yeah, alright, well, well, thank you. Thank you for having me, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  24:00
and sharing my story. It's some

Unknown Speaker  24:06
support, alright, guys.

Speaker 2  24:11
Okay, yeah, so I think that was all ahead for for the evening, and like I said, Be careful if anybody DMS you saying they're me, because it's not me, so keep yourself safe, and if you haven't reported that fraudulent Tiktok account, I appreciate if you do otherwise. I'll see everybody next week, and I'll try to, I'll try to get something together about some day to day operational stuff like Wally was saying, I'll just start as things come up, just kind of list them and go through that. I think that's a good idea. Okay, all right, everybody, see you next week. Yeah. Bye, see you. Thanks. Bye, everyone. Bye. You go, Yep, I.
