Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is July 18, 2025 and tonight we're going to be back into the business acquisition curriculum. And what I wanted to do was kind of go into a success story. You know, I get asked a lot in lives and just in general, like, how many have any of the people in the community actually bought a business, you know, have they, have they purchased a business like, or do you have any success stories? So, so I really like to share this stuff, because I think it's important, because there are a lot of people out there that are just, they'll have a mentorship or something, and they won't really help people. They give them a packet of information and some videos, and then that's it. So I I just want people to see that it's definitely, definitely possible to do this. So we're going to talk to alini, and if you can tell us a little bit about your deal of laundromat, how you found it, just like some of the numbers, and maybe a little bit about your background too, sure.

Speaker 2  01:18
Yeah, so we found that deal may 22 just, actually, I just started following you on Tiktok, and you had mentioned, like, look at biz, buy, sell for businesses that are for sale and all the stuff and so, like, that was probably, like, three or four days before I found this deal and that week. So I have invested in a set of apartment complex with a certain couple and a couple own laundromats in San Diego. So she had reached out to me and said, hey, somebody else in our group is looking at a laundromat in Houston. Do you want to go in or, like, listen to the deal. And I'm like, Sure. And that was like, Wednesday. So we had a call on Thursday, and I invited my sister, who's also my business partner on multiple businesses, with me, into into that call, and she started telling us about the laundromat in Houston. And then sometime during the call, I told them, hey guys, I found one in Cottonwood. Let me send you the deal. And like, two hours after we got off, the call, she's like, This is amazing. The numbers are amazing. It was purchased just for the laundromat, not for the building. So it's $325,000

Unknown Speaker  02:37
the cash flow on it was $125,000

Speaker 2  02:40
a year. So the money, the percentages, looked really good. So the next day, they went ahead and put an offer in, and the broker had received over 100 offers in that first 24 hours. I actually found it within 24 hours of the posting randomly. So I kind of say it was like a God thing that I randomly listened to your Tiktok. And then that happened, because what are the odds, right? And then they put the offer in. Within 24 hours, she accepted the offer. We went under due diligence, and we started investigating the numbers and the broker, because the laundromat owner kind of had, like a brain injury or something. So she told the staff she was selling it, like, two weeks later, which was a big no no. And the broker was really upset about that, because a lot of times you'll lose employees during the transaction. So we went up there and we actually met all the employees, and I spent a lot of time with them, just consolidating them and talking to them and being like, Hey guys, we're cool. They have a laundromat like Steve's super cool. He run it. So in this deal, we have three different partners. All of us got 33% it's me and my husband. My sister has 33% and then our friends, Steve and Liz, who we have the apartment complex with, have 33% and we live in southern Arizona. They live in Flagstaff, so they're actually going to operate it, we're going to pay them 9% of the gross sales to operate it, so they'll get a percentage just for the operation, and then we'll split all the distributions after that.

Speaker 1  04:15
Okay, how'd you come up with the 9% was that, did you guys negotiate that we

Speaker 2  04:20
did negotiate that they wanted. They wanted seven and a half percent. Oh, no, they wanted, oh, we're doing 9% of net. Initially, they wanted 12 and a half percent of gross. And they wanted mileage. And they wanted, if they had to go over two times a week, it was like $50 an hour rate to go down there. And we took that off, we took the mileage off, and then we we ended up settling at 9% of gross through the negotiation, which ends up to be around 29,000 a year, which is pretty fair. You know, if you have to go down there twice a week, it's an hour and 10 minute drive from his house, plus he's going to do all the mechanical. Repairs and all they're going to do, all the financials and stuff. So it just, it was a back and forth on negotiation, on that,

Speaker 1  05:08
okay, is it just a laundromat? Does it have a wash and fold or anything like that?

Speaker 2  05:13
It's, they don't pick up and delivery. They have the or they have the drop off and pick up. They don't have any delivery service right now. And Liz and Steve, who has, who have two in San Diego that have a huge delivery one, they're like, We don't know if we want to do a delivery service, so that's something we're not looking at yet. Like, we're going to, you know, we got the change machine in there. We got what else do we put in there. Oh my gosh, sorry, you guys. It's been a really long day. Camera System, the change machine, once we kind of do the operations, once we kind of get everything up to speed where we want it, we're going to do a renovation. We're going to put in some bigger loads, some 80 loaders in there. Once we do all of that, then if we want to develop the pickup and delivery, we will, but they're not super keen on it, and we kind of are leaning on their experience. They just don't think in that town it's going to do great. So we'll see. I'm totally open if we end up doing it down the line. But for now, I think we're just going to actually revamp the state the space, do some renovations, but we're actually going to wait until we go to the wash and fold show in Orlando in August. We're all flying out there for the laundromat show. We're going to look at some new machines, look at the credit card swiper, different POS systems that you can put on each washer and do all that stuff. It's going to be a huge investment before we go into that. So kind of, kind of, that stuff,

Speaker 1  06:45
okay, versus priority. So the machines that are in there, now, do you know how old they are?

Speaker 2  06:50
So crazy enough, I do. I have, I have a sheet with all the ages on there. They're like, 12 years old. But these machines look five years old because this lady's, like, was so OCD and all her employees absolutely love her and her employees are our employees are amazing. We actually did lose one in the transition, but it's a good thing. But the machines, her clean protocol, was better than Steve and Liz's, who have had laundromats for like, 10 years. So they actually taught them something, which was really neat. So yeah, those machines. And the crazy thing is, she was so organized, she even had a log on each machine, on each mechanical repair or anything that they had. But the machines don't even look five years old. It's crazy. So I think the life on the ones that are in there are a lot longer than most machines that you would buy at 12 years old, because of the maintenance protocol and the cleaning protocol and the draining protocol that she has.

Speaker 1  07:44
Okay, okay, so as far as financing, what did you look into? What did you actually end up doing to finance this deal?

Speaker 2  07:53
So I put the C in creative. I have no shame. So we my hairdresser's mom loaned me $50,000 on a hard money interest only loan for part of it. So I only had to come up with like $83,000 each of us had had to come up with a 75 for the initial thing. And then we decided we need 25,000 by the change of machines, the cameras get, you know, just day to day business stuff to get it started. So I needed to come up with $83,333.33 so I was like, Okay, I got, like, maybe 25,000 myself in the bank right now, because I just bought some duplexes, like six months ago. That wiped me out, which was another hard money loan that my best friend's best friend loaned me $90 just on a promissory note. So I'm the queen of just ask. I have no shame. I'll ask anybody if they'll lend me money. It's like, hey. Sometimes people say, Yes, I do have a good track record. I'll say that, and I have a good reputation. I have a lot of companies, so people know I'm like, good for it. So anyways, my hairdresser's mom, who I used to spend the night at her house in seventh grade and prank call people and like, be like, Hey, is your refrigerator running? You better go after it. Loan me $50,000 for six months So, but, so that's how I got the financing. I do have, like, a strip mall with like 22 tenants that I'm refinancing right now. It should close end of July, early August, and once I do that, I'll have the money to pay her back. So as soon as I get that, I already paid her all the interest up front, and just was like, it's due in December. I'll see you before December, and I'll give you the 50,000 back. So that's how I got financing for this one.

Speaker 1  09:23
Okay, okay, so the other, the other partners, they just, they brought cash. Is what they did.

Speaker 2  09:31
Yeah, my sister's, oh yeah. My sister has so many funds, too many funds. She's usually my financer. But I'm trying to not, I'm trying to break my own codependency with my family, with financing and and, like, spread my wings. So that's kind of what I'm doing now, is like exercising my Ask button, and I'm really interested to look at the capital stacking and stuff, but I couldn't have done that on this deal anyways, because I'm in the midst of that refinancing and I have to use my credit so I can't ding it. So that wouldn't have worked. Anyways, I. Um, my my husband probably could have done it. He has really good credit too. He probably got a capital stack, but we probably couldn't have done it quick enough. We probably could have done it with one of our other companies, honestly, because we get a ton of credit card first. But anyways, it worked out this way. Okay? And Steve and Liz borrowed it from their dad. I we went up there to Flagstaff to stay at their house, and I'm like, I'm borrowing from my hairdresser's mom. We're just busting up laughing in the kitchen making dinner. And she's like, I borrowed it from my dad. I was like, well, at least I broke my codependency this time. It was really funny.

Speaker 1  10:31
So, wow. Okay, well, that, yeah, that's a, that's a creative way. What would So, okay, so what was your term? What was your interest only on the hard money I'm curious. Oh, 10% 10 Okay, so $2,500 total.

Speaker 2  10:46
I made the deal with her because she was very gun shy. I tried to get it from her on my duplexes, because I had needed 90,000 to buy three triplet it was a triplet set. So it was three duplexes in Cincinnati, I bought last July, and I tried to get her lended to me then, but she was super gun shy, so I got it from our other friend. It was like, the next call I made, she was like, Oh, of course, I'll lend it to you, great at 10% same thing. But the deal this time with this one, just to get her to do it, I told her, no matter if I pay it back in two months, I'll give you all six months. So that is something I normally don't do, but in this seal, I did it because she has so much money, like millions and millions sitting down, and I know that more deals are going to come through, so I want to create a trust bond with her that she can lend me money in that case. So it was more of a strategic move, even though it's $2,500 it's, it's going to be a long term play, if that makes sense, it's strategic for me.

Speaker 1  11:38
Yeah, yeah. I mean, definitely it's, all about your network, right? And if you have a go to lender, that's exactly what I do. It's a bank, but I use the same one every time. Just because it's so easy, I don't have to really send them any more information. I just ask and they give me a check. Yeah, it doesn't get much easier than that, yeah.

Speaker 2  11:56
But laundromats are a little bit different. That don't come with the land a lot of times in old machines, right? So it's a different it's a cash business for that specific type of business. Now, to be honest with you guys, I've never bought a company that was established before. We have created our own companies. So this is the for i We have ground up companies. And my sister's here too, but she got a facial today, and her face is red, so she can't come on. My business partner, she can't, I look like a monster. Yeah, she got a micro needling. She looks crazy. Things we do for you, for beauty, we're laughing over here. But anyway, she wanted to listen, because I was on her about you guys and the group and stuff. Because we've joined other cults together, we'll say that we're super culty.

Speaker 1  12:37
Well, good. Well, thank you for joining this cult. I appreciate that for sure.

Speaker 2  12:41
My sister said nothing but great things about you. So I just like, can't wait to see what the you know, what, what this is made of. Yeah, we're excited, yeah, and we're you're off to a great start. Yeah, we're excited to expand. We're excited to look for other companies, like baby boomer companies, like everything you said. Just spoke to me, and I was like, damn. I was, like, it opened my mind to more possibilities, I think, where maybe, like, we came from the Hard Knocks of, like, No, we have to build it from the ground up. And, like, building a company is really hard sometimes, like, we have a few of them. It's we're in the midst of another we're actually taking over another company and completely revamping one of our companies right now, which is a restaurant. So that's a bit of a big, big deal to do too. So, but never have we bought them. And I think we're going to go down this track, track of trying to find companies that have actual real estate and that are operating and more recession proof stuff. So very interesting.

Speaker 1  13:35
Yeah, definitely. I mean, it's, it's a different ball game when the real estate is involved, but at the same time it so it extends your horizon on your your financing to 25 years or 30 years, which makes, you know, makes a lot more sense. It's a hard asset, so it's easier to get financing. Generally, it's just the numbers are so much bigger. So, but yeah, there's a lot of benefit to that. Most of the time, though, I haven't had the opportunity to buy the real estate a lot of times, you know, they're leasing or, like in the case of the last one, they own tons of buildings. They have no intention of selling any buildings, and they just, you know, are willing to lease it out. And I don't. I guess that's their kind of retirement plan. Is the real estate So, but, yeah, it definitely is a different dynamic. But there are a lot of people out there that only buy businesses if they include the real estate. So there's, there's for sure, a benefit you get, all the depreciation, all the tax benefits from just general real estate ownership. So, oh yeah, it's really good. Okay. Well, cool. So I'll be curious in a few months to see what you think about acquiring a business, as opposed to starting it from scratch. Because me, personally, I'm not going to start any more businesses like i just i. Don't want to go down that road anymore. It's, it's a real pain in the ass, so I would much rather buy one that somebody else has already dealt with all that stuff and go from there. So so that's really cool. Can you talk about your due diligence, a little bit like, what your your process was, how you went?

Speaker 2  15:17
Yeah, yeah. So it's very interesting with the laundromat, because first off, the most difficult thing we had during this process was the lease negotiation, because it was a big box lease conglomerate out of Texas, so to get anything back and forth was just insanity. It took forever. We would have closed in three weeks if it wasn't for the lease negotiation taking for ever. Like, it was so frustrating. Thank God we have my sister, who's also a real estate agent, so she's dealt with a lot of commercial leases and a lot of big conglomerates. So she's like, it's normal, it's going to be two weeks. So we even hear anything back. Like, she kind of took us through that process, but then so there was a lot of negotiating on that side, trying to get the percentages right on the annual increases and stuff like that. The other part of due diligence was going through the the machines, going through collections multiple times. So Steve went down. We went down on the first collection, and we went through there, collected the coins, looked through the drop off, drop off and pick up book, look through all of the computer, all of the bank accounts and the the financials on that way, they sent us all the financials, which pretty much this lady is like 72 it was like a planner with the dates, with like cash written on each date and credit card. And it was the funniest thing I Okay, restaurants is kind of the same, like a lot of people will old way, like the old restaurant that Maria had in my that we had my dad had sold to her, was like that everything was like, hand and then a book. And it was like, Ashton kind of same deal with that. So it was really interesting. There's part of the clause that are that's in our purchase agreement that we have a three month window after we purchase to verify that the numbers are correct. Since it's so I don't know, squiggly wiggly you could call it, since we took it off of bank deposits and just a random calendar with like numbers. So if the numbers don't match what the financials that were provided say, there's a big difference. We have three months to say, Go, actually, I said that wrong. Yeah, we have $100,000 sitting back in escrow that we can take from if the numbers are off. So that was kind of something unique about this deal that to protect the buyers. But also, on the other end of that, if the sales are higher, then we can end up owing more. So it's kind of like a two edged sword on that. But it's not going to be, because July, August, September, are the worst months in the laundromats. And since what they were saying, since the ice stuff is going on, like the Hispanic culture population in that area, and every area is like afraid to go. So everybody's numbers in the industry right now are down a pinch because of that, too. So I think we're going to be fine on that, but we'll see that's

Speaker 1  18:24
an excellent strategy, though, to make to verify those numbers. You know, sometimes they call it a hold back. It could be just anything in general, like, if you you can do those hold backs, if you think that maybe a key employee will leave and they won't, you can't negotiate where you're going to talk to the employee before you sign a purchase agreement. So you can say, Okay, if this person works out and they manage it and and they don't just quit and take off, then, you know, that's your money. Otherwise, I get it back because I'm going to have to hire somebody new. I have to train them. I'm going to spend a lot of time like, that's, that's a that's a great strategy. That was really smart.

Speaker 2  19:01
Yeah, I think I don't know who. Well, actually, the broker came up with that because he had actually sold this laundromat to Mimi or Mimas, who we bought it from initially. And he is a business broker out of Phoenix, so he's done a lot of transactions and stuff. So he understood. He set that up for us. Now we do have one issue in there. We have two employees. So three employees were supposed to come with a business. One of them quit right before the close date, but it actually was a good thing, because all three employees are getting paid half cash, half payroll, right because of insurance, and they're getting Medicaid and stuff like that. So one of the employees left, we rehired a new one, or she rehired a new employee, 100% payroll. So it took care of one of the two issues on there. Now we've got to wean them off of that, because we're not messing with the Labor Board. We've already had a situation with them with another company. We never, ever, ever will pay people cash again. We learned the hard way on that. So. Um, that's our big issue right now, is like, how are we going to do that? Do we need to prove are we going to provide them health insurance? So we're in the if you guys have any creative ideas on that, how to resolve this, either we're trying to find them health insurance and put them on but and then that way we can pay them fully on payroll. So that's, that's our biggest problem, actually, with this acquisition.

Speaker 1  20:23
So why were they paid cash? I don't because

Speaker 2  20:26
they're getting state aid, state medical aid, and they both have, one of them died in the laundromat, like three years ago, and before she had a heart attack, she called Mimi and was like, come back. I'm on the floor. I can't get up. Mimi came back. She was dead for seven minutes. Mimi gave her CPR, saved her life and brought her back to life. The other one had, like, a traumatic brain injury, and the other employee that both of those employees are pretty loyal, and I think will stay with us, and they're amazing employees, like the customers love them, and they know everything, and they're just super loyal. So yeah, both of them have to have medical so they weren't able to afford private health insurance, so Mimi just paid them half cash, half on payroll, so they could continue to get, like, access or Medicare,

Unknown Speaker  21:15
Medicaid, not Medicare. Yeah,

Speaker 1  21:17
yeah, that that's a tough one, because I think really the only solution is to get them health care through the business, and that's going to be very expensive. Yeah, it's going to be tough.

Speaker 2  21:28
Well, not necessarily. We have, we have, like at a restaurant, we just hired a new general manager, and we gave him health insurance. He's 52 he has pre existing conditions. We got him a pretty solid plan for 400 a month. So there's ways around it, you can i Yeah, we're gonna figure it out. And I think there's ways that are affordable enough, so

Unknown Speaker  21:52
we'll see. Yeah, but definitely

Speaker 1  21:56
yeah, you want to start No, we're not doing that. No, yeah, and that's what you find, right to doing that, yeah, these older owners, like, they, they're just breaking the rules, yeah, you know, whether they're pocketing cash or paying people under the table, like, they just, they do their own thing, and they've been doing it like that for 30 years, and that's just how it's going to be. So there's always a challenge like that with boomers, yeah?

Speaker 2  22:20
So that's kind of, that's the biggest issue, is like, and we just said we're going to resolve this within six months of buying it, because we when we were not going to let it stop the deal, and we're like, it's going to resolve. We're going to, let's just get it closed first. And within the closure, we've recycled one of the problems out. So now we're like, Okay, we got two left. We're going to figure this out. So we're going to, we just closed Saturday, so we're going to do some more research on that. We just been busy with other business stuff.

Unknown Speaker  22:45
So, yeah, yeah. Okay,

Speaker 1  22:50
so you're going to go to the convention. Are you planning on buying new equipment or just new like credit card readers for the existing equipment?

Speaker 2  22:59
So there's room in the shop right now, for a couple of there's a lot of 40 loads. There's 60 loads, and there's a couple 80 loads. We need more 80 loads in there. The 80 loads you make more profit on. So 80 pound load is what I mean, 80 pounds of laundry. So we do plan on buying, I think, four washers, four more 80 loaders, if we can get them to fit now, right now, we're kind of like measuring everything and getting it out board. Definitely, I think there's one office in there we might knock down and then put some more there. So it may be up to six washers and dryers on the 80 loads that we end up buying, set wise, right now, and the credit card things. Unless there's something else we maybe we'll find something at the show that's new. They haven't had the show in two years, so they're kind of excited to go too, because who knows, there's all kinds of technology coming out, and maybe we don't have to get credit card swipers. Maybe there's something else we can do.

Speaker 1  23:53
So, yeah, so the the current machines, they don't have any swipe they're just strictly coin.

Speaker 2  24:01
Oh, this is the other part. Yeah, it's all coin. And the other part of it is they were, Mimi was taking people's swiping people's credit card and just giving them cash, which is not illegal, but some credit card companies will cancel you for doing that. So everything's a little janky right now. We're gonna we were like, we're not going to change until we go to the wash show, because maybe there's something better out there, so let's not switch it. To switch it. Let's go to the wash show in a couple of weeks, figure out what all the technology is, and then you can get really good deals at these shows too. Is the other part of it. So we're like, let's go and do it there. If we want to buy what Steve and Liz have at their other ones, we can get it there, but we'll also just get a huge discount for going to the show to get that stuff. So that's kind of our plan, okay, which is in like three weeks.

Speaker 1  24:49
So okay, so when you how are you going to keep track of if it's just the coins, how are you going to keep track of the coins? Things that come in and, you know, how are you going to hold the other like the team that's there accountable? You know? How do you know that they're going to record all the coins that they get, things like that?

Speaker 2  25:11
Well, first off, we have cameras everywhere. Psychopaths that watch them. So there's that. Yeah, we have cameras on every company. That's how you verify, right? Trust, but verify. We say, but verify. Very nice about it, but there is a system to even keep track of the credit card swipes that we give out for cash because it's one value and say that we're selling laundry detergent or doing drop off and pick up. All those have like a 99 cent ending or an 89 cent ending, the only ones that would come out to a straight zero are selling coin back to the customer to swipe it if they're not using the ATM, right? So that's how we would keep track, so you don't double count credit card and coin. Does that make sense? Because if I sell you $10 if you swipe your credit card and it's a $10 roll of coins that we get, and then you go, so I count that as $10 you can't do that. You got to take that out and then go to the machine and put the $10 in. Then we would be double counting. It does that make sense? So this why the system doesn't work. Her system doesn't work. We know it needs to be like updated, because it's a mess. So what the employees do is they notate whenever it's a coin sale on the fancy books that they have lovely and then there's a specific book for drop off and pick up, just a receipt book for each one. And that's how they kind of keep track when you get a load of people stuff, then you put that, you take one of the, you know, it's carbon copy receipt, and tape it and tape it to the machine while you're washing it and drying it, to keep it with that load, to keep everything organized and stuff. So it will be a system of that, and then actually counting doing collections, and counting the coin coins that are collected during collections, if that makes sense.

Speaker 1  26:59
Okay, are you going to put any vending machines? I know you probably already have vending machines for, like, detergent and bleach and stuff like that, right? But like, maybe food machines, anything like that, to increase the revenue.

Speaker 2  27:12
Um, we're talking about it. We my, my sister, one of the partners, had just bought a bakery here locally, and when we went, she had to, she had to release the tenants from being on site and take all of the possessions because they forgot. They didn't have the money to pay. So in that acquisition, we actually picked up a lot of gumball machines. So we're going to definitely put the gumball machines in there. We're getting those cleaned up and re keyed right now, vending machines, we're still talking about if there's going to be room after we put all the ad loaders in there to do it. So right now, all the the detergents and stuff and dryer sheets are not in a vending machine. They're getting sold behind the counter, because there's always an employee there, because there's so much pickup and drop off. So there, that's kind of where it's at. It's not a huge is it 2100 square feet? Maria, no, 2000 Yeah, it's like 2000 square feet. So it's, it's kind of small the way that it's so we'll see if we can get one in after the renovation, but, but we'll prioritize putting the 80 loaders in, because it'll make more money than the vending machines anyways.

Speaker 1  28:16
So okay, so what I've found too, is that most boomers don't charge enough. Like they're they're really behind on their pricing as far as the pickup and drop off laundry. What's the what's the pricing for that? I'm sure it's by the pound, and then, like a flat fee. Like, how is that working?

Speaker 2  28:35
It's all pick up and drop off, all done by the pound. I don't know what our current rate is. Honestly, Liz and Steve know that, and I don't know if we're within range or not. They're going to they're going to determine that because they're industry experts on it, and we kind of, we're trusting them, since they already have two of them, and so that's kind of how that is. So it's not anything we're going to actually determine. It's something we'll review in our meetings and approve, but it's not anything that they're going to present to us like what they think is on point.

Speaker 1  29:06
So with the dynamic of all the different partners, how are you structuring the meetings and decisions? Do you have a contract that specifies, you know, okay, so you're all members of the same LLC?

Speaker 2  29:20
Yes, so we did members of the same LLC. Me and my husband went into the membership with one of our companies. So our company is the member of the joint LLC. Everybody put a company into LLC. Is the way that we did it. Now. We did a iron clad operating agreement. We did multiple zoom meetings that took multiple hours to come to agreement on how if we if one partner wants to exit, how do we do it? Do we do a shotgun exit like? How do we do a buyout? What if? What if we don't like the manager who's also one of the owner? How do we mitigate that? How do we go through mediation, if there's issues here, we put in there, the. How we would structure the sale of the laundromat later on, in like 20 years, if we want to sell it or whatever. It's all based on the age of the machines times a certain multiplier. So that's in the operating agreement. What else is in the Maria? What else have I missed? Operating Agreement? Just on the day to day, is protection for everybody. You didn't miss anything. Yeah, we, I mean, we it was, it was quite interesting meeting. We've learned a lot because my partner here, Maria and I have multiple businesses with family, which is very complicated and difficult. So we have learned what to do, what not to do, through the hard knocks College, and so we knew what to put in the operating agreement to protect both sides of the party. And, you know, it's not everybody's for partnerships. You need to have a lot of discernment when you go into partnerships. But these two are super solid, and I've known them, you know, I've done other deals with them, and everything they say they do, and they're a lot like us, just people of their word. But you don't want to get in bed with anybody like you. Anybody like, you're literally married to people when you're in business with them, and it can get very ugly very fast. So you have to have a solid operating agreement. And I'm really proud of us. We did it this time. So we let my husband negotiate everything. He used chat GBT for everything, all the holes in it, and then we let him be like, the bad guy of being like, let me just bring up this clause that needs to be in here, and me and Maria, just for like, like, you know, very uncomfortable conversations, but we let him do it, and he did an amazing job. And also, then they had to bring up uncomfortable stuff too, of like, how do we protect this and that? And, you know, so it was great. I'm really, I'm really impressed with how everybody handled it, and even through the uncomfortable conversations, in the end, we'd everybody was just like, we're so blessed that we're so aligned, that we can talk about this stuff. And nobody got like, emotional or crazy. It was just like, Okay, we want to make sure if this happened, and saying, like, worst case scenario, how are we going to handle this? And just talked about it like adults. So it's pretty cool.

Speaker 1  31:57
Okay, so did you have an attorney finalize the those contracts, or you just, no, you just rolled with it.

Speaker 2  32:04
Okay, no, we've done enough of them that we didn't feel like we needed to. Okay, yeah,

Speaker 1  32:10
so it just to, I don't know, any advice to the other people, because a lot of people went, you know, we'll watch this video. Do you have any advice for them? As someone who is buying an established business for the first time, you know, did you have a moment of doubt? Did you have moments of like, Oh, why am I no that I shouldn't do this?

Speaker 2  32:34
No, not this deal? It was like a pure excitement. And everything was so weirdly aligned, and just everything so happened so organically and so easily. It just when it happens like that with deals with us, we know it's in alignment with us. And there was all the only sticky stuff was like, Oh, she's paying them cash. Okay, well, we'll, we'll resolve that. We don't know how we're going to do, yeah, we're going to do that, right? Of course. Like, there was a couple of like, Oh, shit. Are we going to get the money before we get to the finish line? Like, initially we were going to close in three weeks. That's what we set the closing date for. Once the broker found out that the employees knew so more. It was just pure terror of, like, How the f are we going to come up with this amount of money in like, three weeks? But then we did it in two weeks, so we were fine. So pure terror of that stuff. And was there any really no terror from No, yeah, I think it was the other side, freaking out. Like a couple times. Our partner was like, we need to what was it with several different things, yeah, me, Mom wanting to help her, because we multiple the staff too quickly. It was just internal problems. Mostly was like their side, just messiness on their side, but it was nothing with us, where our broker, oh, this was the biggest problem. Our broker was trying to make us close this deal without a lease. And we're like, okay, the lease ends in September of 2025, first off, it's completely unethical for you trying to do this to us. Like, what recourse do we have if we close this business without a lease, literally, they could just be like, we're not going to issue you a lease. So we had a lot of pressure on that side, and we thought it was very unprofessional of him to do that. But later on, we kind of found out that it was our partner was feeling really bad because she was having multiple meetings with Mima, who was like 72 and looked like she was, like, on her last leg, right? I mean, I was like, I just want to help. This is taking forever. This is torture, you know, like this, like old lady, so, you know, Liz kind of had the bleeding heart syndrome where she was like, Are you sure we shouldn't close? And so she kept asking all of us as a group, and we would just continually be like, period, we are never closing this deal without the lease. Like, no stop. Stop asking at the end. It got kind of frustrating. So that was, that was one thing. But I get that because we get bleeding heart syndrome too. So, like, I totally understand, so a little bit that the broker is being pushy on that. So just to understand, don't ever, ever close anything if you don't have a lease, if you're not buying the building, obviously, make sure you have an. Ironclad lease. Like, we got a 15 year lease with a five year option at the 15 year so really, it's a 20 year lease that ensures that we can operate that business long enough to get our money back and make money, right? Like, if we can close that with a five year lease, like you have to look at your lease on something like that. So was that the only issue we kind of had, almost breaking the neck of their age. Oh my god, representing and putting forth where you shouldn't have we are so frustrated, honestly, with that more like, if they ask one more time, you know, the same question, and we just, at some point, we just stopped answering, like, we're not going to answer this question again. If you guys ask us if we can close without a lease, like, no. So that was probably the three big hang ups was the payroll issue with them paying cash, the lease issue, and then whatever from the other agent, the pressure from the other agent, right? So, and he was representing both parties, so that was super unprofessional. And how do we know that? Because she's an agent, and she sells businesses, so we know, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  35:59
yeah. Not cool. Not cool.

Speaker 1  36:03
Okay, so just as like a last message to other people that are traveling the same path, what message do you have to them?

Speaker 2  36:15
Yeah, so definitely involve people that have experience when say, say, if you're buying one type of business for the first time, find a mentor that's already bought that type of business and have them review it, right? Or somebody like you that could look through things. We like to do stuff with, with mentors that can look through it, anything we buy. If we can find somebody like, when we bought our shopping center, we went and found one of our mentors who's like, literally, the dude has so much property, it's crazy. Probably gets a million in rent every month. But we're like, can you look at the steel and see if it's good? So just finding somebody to review it, because people with experience are going to see things that you don't know about yet, just because you don't know that business. So finding somebody that can do that take your time, and if somebody's pressuring you about something that your guts telling you no, like, with the least situation, stick to your guns. Like, don't be afraid to put your foot down and just be like, yeah, no, we're not doing that. And you, you know that's okay, so, and also, just take a risk. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  37:16
do it, yeah, yeah, pull the trigger. Okay.

Speaker 1  37:21
Well, awesome. Thank you very much. Does anybody have any questions for Laney?

Speaker 3  37:31
So have, so have y'all closed? Y'all are officially already operating it? Or is it soon?

Speaker 2  37:36
Yep, we closed on Saturday. We've already received multiple deposits in the bank account. So the bank accounts going up. We just got, he just did our first cash deposit. Today. It was like $3,033.50 or something. So that was super exciting. So we are officially six days in. So Saturday at 12:01am, it'll be full week of having it, so he's already been down there every single day. So Steve's doing the opening, so in all the takeover. So they'll be there probably the first two weeks. And then after the laundry show, we'll go back. We'll actually go up there with them, probably for a week. And my husband and him will probably do the renovations, because we do a lot of renovations ourselves, and so does he. So we'll go assist in that to get it done quicker. Is your goal to do it was like the 50,000 that you borrowed right with the hard money? Are you trying to is your goal to try to make that back and pay that off in a certain amount of time, or just pay it over time out of cash flow. So I'm I'm actually refinancing our Maria and my shopping center right now. It should close in the next two weeks or three weeks. When I get that we're going to do, we're actually pulling out a lot of equity, probably $600,000 in equity. So when I do that, whatever my split is, I'll take $50,000 out of whatever that is and pay her back. I don't really. We have already talked about we're not going to take any money out of this laundromat for the first six months. We're going to let it build up a big bank so that if we want to buy more equipment, we can do it out of that instead of having putting more money in there. So we don't have any need or urgency any of the three of us, we decided that, prior to buying it like, Hey, what's your goals? Our goals is to have more cash flow monthly, but initially, our goals is not to have any to be able to build up enough in the bank that the company pays for improvements versus us coming out of pocket or find you know, if we have to finance it, we will, but if we can just build it in there for a few months and see how things go, which is important, when you have partners, you need to you need to know, before you go into a company with somebody, what their goals are. Some people are like, oh, I want an equity deal down the road where I don't care if I get monthly cash flow, but in three years, I want a big chunk of my. E so you need to make sure, with partners that you're aligned with what your goals are. Our goals, both Maria and mine and Steve and Liz, is to have a long term company that is paying us monthly high cash flow. In this deal. We're like, wow, there's no real estate all well. So luckily, all three of us have the same mindset on what our goals are for finance. Finances for that, some people would say, like, oh, after five years, let's sell and make a whole bunch of money. None of the three of us have that goal. And we verified that before we went into this partnership, so that nobody was like, oh, frustrated after five years and they want to cash out, right? But also, we did put it in the purchase agreement. There is a clause in there if one partner wants to cash out how we're going to do that buyout anyways, and structure it that way too. But just, just so if you do end up in partnership, you want to make sure that if one person doesn't want a lot of money, or wants to just invest all the money in the business, and then the other person wants money out of the business, you're going to have, you know, a rub there so you don't want that.

Speaker 1  41:01
Yeah, definitely. And you know, if you do want to pay a business off quick, you know, more quickly people, I think, I think people misunderstand that statement. They think that you should pay more every month, like, okay, we're making more. I'm going to pay an extra $500 a month. That's, that's not what I ever do. So what I do is I take, if I set the money aside, into a savings account, and I wait until there's a chunk of money after a year, after six months, and then you can then apply. You can actually talk to your lender first and say, Hey, I would like to pay off this, this portion, you know, let's call it $75,000 I'd like to drop 75,000 in this Can I get a reset on the loan when I do that so it'll take your because otherwise you're just throwing money in there. Your your payments still the same. Nothing really changes. You just don't go for as many months. But if you need more cash flow month to month, you can do a reset. It recalculates the loan and brings your payments down. But you're not going to do that if you just pay a little bit more every month. So that's that's something else to remember, and then also why you're saving that money. You're getting interest on it. You know, you have a war chest, just, just like a lady was saying, if, if things happen, you need to buy equipment or whatever you could, but you can make that decision year to year. But, yeah, you definitely don't want to just pay more each month to try to pay it off quickly, just like with a mortgage. That doesn't make sense on a mortgage either.

Speaker 2  42:27
Yeah, and stick it in, like a money market, or even stick it in a CD where you're going to get a higher you know, I'll do, like in our companies, I'll do, I just did. I got out of a seven month CD that was, like 4.75% I just put it into a year CD at 4% for that, you know, for for that, what is it like? Emergency Fund money, whatever. But you want to make sure your money is working for you. If it's going to sit there and you, and in all companies, you need a certain amount of money to sit there, just for an emergency

Speaker 1  42:57
truly, yeah. And you can get a high yield savings account right now. That's like 3.75 Yeah, you know. So it's a little little shy of four. So even that's doing pretty good.

Unknown Speaker  43:09
Okay, cool.

Speaker 1  43:11
Anybody else have any other questions by the laundromat? I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  43:20
Go ahead, after you.

Speaker 2  43:22
I thought we were done, but I was just going to tell Shane Thank you, because He inspired me to look on that site. And without that site, I wouldn't have. I mean, who knows, maybe we would have found the deal otherwise, like, who knows. But, you know, I don't know if we would have so I just want to say I appreciate that.

Speaker 1  43:39
Yeah, absolutely. I just love that, you know, people are doing this, you know? I that's, that's the whole reason that, that we do what we do, right? And then all of my stupid social media posts and lives that I do all the time, right? This is the, this is the hope here, like that people will learn and they'll do it. Because I didn't think this was possible years ago, and I think most people don't think it's possible. I just like so I was randomly, I'll just tell a story real fast. I was randomly in this hotel lobby, and I was talking to somebody that was next to me, a co worker, about buying a business. And the people around were listening, and they started coming in. They're started surrounding us and asking questions like, we didn't even know these people, but that's how excited people get about this possibility and about being able to not be beholden to a boss, not have to worry about, you know, getting fired a week before Christmas because the numbers don't work on the, you know, those things, like, I think everybody wants those things. They just don't know how to do it, or they're too scared to pursue it. So, yeah, that's awesome. Congratulations, Ernie, did you have a question real fast?

Speaker 4  44:57
First of all, congrats, Colleen. Yeah. Yeah. Question, what's the like, the work hours? Does it run like 24 hours, or it's just due during the day?

Speaker 2  45:11
Yeah, I think it opens at 6am and then it closes last loads at 730 I think, I think it closes at nine. But don't what's the hours? Do you remember eight to eight? Was it eight to eight? No, I think it was seven to eight, but it has an auto unlock on the doors, so the doors have a system on it that auto unlock at a certain time and auto lock at a time. But yeah, it's not 24 hours. Yeah, it wouldn't work for that area.

Speaker 4  45:38
Got it? Yeah, I was just ask like, follow up question, like, is it worth it to make it 24 hours to to increase the cash flow, or is it more like a safety concern, like, not to do that?

Speaker 2  45:53
I think in this particular laundry mat, it's not like the some of the laundromats you go into where there's no attendance, because our laundromat always has an attendant. And the way that it's set up, it kind of needs it right now. So I think the way it's set up now, it's a no now, should we look into it for the future? I'm not opposed to it, but collinwoods, kind of a crackhead town, I'm not gonna lie, has a lot of it's 12,000 people in that town, and they're kind of crack a lacking. So I don't know if it would be smart for us to leave it unattended at night without people there. So to answer your question, I don't know the answer. I think it's a good question. I think that's something we should talk about as a group and maybe research some more before I could give you a good answer. But great question. Okay, thank you. Yeah, thank you.

Speaker 5  46:42
I have a question. Sorry, I can't find the reaction button to raise my hand. Given how popular laundromats, what would you say is one thing that gave you advantage over like hundreds of others, you know, so that way we can be, you know, on the lookout and take advantage of,

Speaker 2  47:05
yeah, great question, and our broker actually answered that question for us. When Liz and Steve had put the offer together, they put in there a big packet of, like, a bio sheet that said, like, hey, we own this laundry mat and this laundromat, and put information on that for this many years, and blah, blah, blah, and they sent it with the purchase offer. So literally, out of hundreds and hundreds of other people, the broker pinpointed them because of their experience, I don't think we would have got this deal. I think it, I think we would have the price would have been driven up in the deal, and it would have probably gone to bid war if it wasn't for their experience.

Unknown Speaker  47:51
Great question, patience. Thank you.

Speaker 2  47:58
So maybe teaming up with people specifically like in an industry like this that's hyper competitive and super popular to buy right now, everybody like seeing the tiktoks and wants to buy laundromats now is doing it that way, or becoming friends with the current owners and trying to do it that way? I think would give you advantage later on if they wanted to sell. Yeah.

Speaker 5  48:20
Then a follow up question would be like, how did you build this you know, like you said, going into business with partners, it's like, it's like a love and marriage relationship, pretty much, how did you build this trust over the years? Like to just quickly pull something like this along, like, I have people around me, some of them, they do have the money, but they're not into business. They're into other, you know, private work life. And how do you, you know, I feel like you're a charming person and you have the right words. I mean, if you can give us a little bit tip about how you put this resources together and the people and for how long have you done it? Was it like more of a trust thing, or you just had the magic thing? Yeah, with you just convincing.

Speaker 2  49:15
Great question. So this group, so Shane knows this, but me and my sister joined a rmfi, so a real estate group with a bunch we paid a lot of money to be in that group, like a very huge like, $90,000 for four of us to join it. Um, my portion was $45,000 to join it. And it was an apartment investing group, which we've done multiple deals with. Within this group, we met this couple. So I've been watching this group since 2021 I kind of stalk people before I even join a group. Normally, Shane is a little bit different, but before I had been in this group, I was in a house flipping group with a coach, and that's how I'd met the coaches. This group, and I vet them. I watched them, I watched the people that joined the group. So I had been to multiple quarterly meetings with this group, where we go and learn and we network with other people. And I had met Liz and Steve. All of us had met Liz and Steve literally on the elevator up on the first one, and the funny, yeah, I'm not going to tell that story, but we had met them, and I had traveled with them multiple times to different places. And in 2023 I invested in one of Liz's deals. Liz is a she probably has seven or eight apartment complexes right now. She's literally just went under contract for another one. So I had gotten into a deal with her Hawthorne village, I think that one's called in 2023 I just invested 50,000 in the deal. So I ended up going to quarterly meetings and everything they promised on the investment has happened. And then some like the investments way better than I initially thought it was. So I had already been into one deal with Liz. I saw she how she runs her her companies, because we have quarterly meetings and monthly updates on the meetings. And so actually we had monthly meetings and then quarterly distributions on that one. So I'd already watched her and actually been in a deal with her, and saw how much integrity she has. So I had already vetted her in that way, and then actually, last year, in October, she's actually an NLP coach, so it's a subconscious coach, and I've done a lot of subconscious belief work with her and just a lot of self improvement work with her on individually, one on one, and just clicked with her. So within that coaching that I had done, or the NLP work I was doing with her, me and her had multiple chats of, like, they drive through Yuma to go to their San Diego laundromats, and there's this huge sign, like this red and white sign that said laundry. And me and her had, like, talked and been like, we want to buy a laundromat, you know, together down here. And she's like, you guys, find a laundromat down there, and we'll partner with you guys and teach you how to run it. So we had already, last October, started talking about getting a laundromat. We truly believed we were going to get one in Yuma first. This is not what any of us thought was going to happen. So that's how I vetted that one. Now with my sister. I've been in business with my sister since 2014 we started our first company flipping houses together. Oh, that's a fun little story there, and that's how we had built our initial capital to buy a restaurant, or to actually build a restaurant and start a restaurant, and then we use, you know, rolled that money into a a straw shopping center and other investments since there. So, yeah, you need to vet people and make sure that you guys have similar values. When you're going into business with somebody, you have to have you have to understand what your standards are. I have very high standards of transparency and communication integrity, honesty and all those things. I know that her and her husband have those things. I've been around them enough to know that and done enough deals with them, and also with my sister, me and my sister. And the other thing is my sister also coached with Liz, so my sister got very close with Liz also, and through that, had realized how aligned all of our morals and our values were. So it's very easy to get into a marriage with somebody, and it be very cohesive and easy when you guys have the same standards and morals, when you have somebody that doesn't have your level of integrity or honesty, you're going to have rubs in the business. But so since we had found out that, like, Oh my God. Like, it's so easy. We talk so easy, you understand, like, if I get upset about this, they're like, oh my god, that totally makes sense, because their values are aligned. So when you're going into business with partners, you need to make sure that you guys have a very aligned set of thinking and and standards and values within your own life. Otherwise you're not. You're going to have some issues and be able to have hard conversations. We had had so many difficult conversations with Liz on feelings and, you know, emotional trauma and all this stuff doing the NLP work with her, and was easily able to talk through those things with her. So I knew okay, if we can have these really awkward, weird conversations about personal stuff and marriages and all the things, we could have those difficult conversations in business without anybody getting triggered or being crazy and, you know, stuff like that. So is very easy with her, and it still is very easy with them, just to have the con, the hard conversations and and just like normal and stuff like that. So, yeah, you do need to vet people. And pretty much everybody I, I talked to, knows that I'm in business. People know I'm always like, Hey, do you want to invest like, do you want to own companies? Like, I'm very open about my business more than most people, honestly. And I meet people everywhere I go. I'll meet people in the airport, get their contact, and they'll be like, I'll invest in your next deal, and literally have them in my network. And I'll, I'll reach out to them and and Facebook friend them. And I'm a very friendly person in that way, but I'm also very, I have very good instincts on discern. Good and bad individuals that align with me and don't, and I tend to listen to my gut on those things, so that's been very advantageous. But did I answer all your questions? Hopefully I did.

Speaker 5  55:13
You did way beyond Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  55:17
Yeah, you're very welcome.

Unknown Speaker  55:21
Okay, any further questions?

Speaker 1  55:27
Okay, thanks so much, Lenny, we really appreciate it. And congrats again. My pleasure. Bye.
