Speaker 1  00:00
Shane. Hello, everyone. This is Shane, and it's the money Language Academy, May 22 2025 tonight is a it's a business class. And somebody asked me last week if I could go through some of the challenges that happen, like on a, you know, not necessarily a daily basis, but kind of like operationally with each business, and try to try to just give insight to the kinds of things that come up and that you deal with as an owner, not necessarily a manager, but an owner, right? Because that's, that's always what I say. I'm trying to manage the managers because I don't want to be there, you know, managing the employees and the day to day operations and all that stuff. But inevitably, that kind of stuff comes up. I mean, it just does, because new things happen. You know, everybody has a certain like, especially managers, they get in a routine. They know what to expect, but then they get a curveball, and they're like, Oh crap, what am I going to do? So the first thing was one of the repair shops. So this repair shop has co managers. I always try to have redundancy everywhere. So if one managers out, you know, gets ill or whatever, there's always somebody that can step in. That's every role every business. I try to keep that redundant, because there should never be one person that knows how to only one person that knows how to do whatever job it is, because, you know, they leave you high and dry, you're in trouble. So this particular one, they both wanted to hire someone new. They want to hire someone it was a upfront in the customer area where customers come in and for auto repair. What we found is that if you have a woman up front, it tends to bring in more female clientele, like they feel more comfortable to come in, you know, you keep things nice and new looking in there. You don't want to someone to come in like a professional person, you know, and everybody's gruff and dirty, and the place is grubby and that kind of stuff. Even if it is a dirty job. It shouldn't be like that out front. So try to have coffee and water and just just, you know, good stuff for everybody. So that we wanted to hire a new customer rep out front. And both of the manager managers had different people that they wanted to hire. One of them was the guy's best friend, and the other one was a guy's fiance. And those were the top two picks right now, generally, I don't, I don't like that nepotism thing where you're going to hire somebody that you know, or really good friends, something like that, and but they were both good, qualified people. So that was what I was I was mediating that like, you know, I had to be the tiebreaker on who we going to hire. And what it went down to is the fiance had more experience and lived closer, whereas the other one lived far away. But it was a, I don't know, it was kind of a weird situation, but who else was going to make that decision, right? But yeah, so we went with the fiance. I may regret that if they get a divorce in the future, or they start fighting, but I don't know so that that's just, was just a little simple nothing thing, but I ended up spending like an hour on the phone with them, just about that whole thing, while the other one was texting me. So it's like, it's weird. And then there was also, at the same place, there was a very bad review this week where they took a picture of one of the employees, like, where it looks like they're all angry, and said that they're they were mean to them and this and that. But what it was is somebody came in, they wanted an inspection. They got an inspection for their car, and they had a list of things that they had to fix before they could, you know, pass the inspection. And they were mad about it because they said this one thing they were they were arguing, saying that that wouldn't make it past inspection, which is a crack on the windshield. On the windshield. And in this state, they just recently changed cracks in the windshield to be if they're over a certain length or in your line of sight, you have to completely, you know, put a new windshield in. You just can't. And that's expensive, and they didn't want to pay for it. So they got an argument back and forth. I think the employee got a little snippy because they got tired of it, but they took a picture of them, and it was like the employee pointing and looking real mean. And so bad reviews are something that all service businesses, any customer facing business, is very hard to overcome, because when they Google you, that's the first thing they see, is the reviews. They're going to see those stars first. How many stars do you have? Then they'll go through and look at individual things. So this was a one star review from somebody who was really angry and had that picture on there. Said, Don't ever go to this place. You know, they're going to treat you poorly. They're going to lie to you. I mean, all the bad things that you can think about that they would put on there. So I was like, well, you. Can't delete a review. There's nothing. There's nothing you can do about a bad review other than just respond to it and say, you know, very sorry. So that's what I did. I responded to it. I said, you know, this is not how we operate. I'm very sorry if any of the employees got cross with you. We, you know, we'd like to offer you a discount if you bring your car in for whatever the repair was, and and then just, I kind of left it at that. Now the problem is, there's not a whole lot of reviews on that business. So it took, it took our four point whatever down to a 3.3 or 3.2 or something. That's terrible. So now what I'm going to do, what I did is I ordered a whole bunch of promotional cups, and that, you know, have they're not yetis, but they're not Stanley's either, but they're an off brand, and they have the logo on and everything. And anybody that puts in a good review while they're there gets one of those free cups. And then also they can either get the cup or they'll get $20 off of whatever repair they're getting. So I'm going to try to offset that by just getting 50 to 100 good reviews. So it's buried and it's, it's in the past, but there's nothing else you can do, like it's just, it's part of it. And you see, every business out there is going to have those anomalous one star, two star reviews, because people only ever do a review when they're really pissed off or when they're really happy, and most of the time, people just if they're really happy, they'll forget about it and they'll just go on their way. But you know, so now I told them to print out the QR code, put it next to the register, where it take them right to the Google reviews. They fill out the Google review, they show it to them, and then they can get their cup or their discount when the cups come in, the cups don't come in until like Monday. But that's kind of how, you know, overcoming that. So that was the struggle there, with the same the same place, with those two things, property management, I do, I so I do the books on that. That's where I always say, I do about an hour a month on that business. Usually, I don't have to do too much. This, this one in particular, the the there was a lot of repairs. So we got, we got, I think it was 30 units from this one, one investor, and they're really bad. So we've been rehabbing them. Our team's been rehabbing them one at a time, one at a time. So there's a ton of receipts that come in, and we use Spark receipts to put all of the all of the stuff in print it out as a as a CSV, then I can then easily put port that to the customer and say, here's all your expenses. Here's, you know, blah, blah, blah. Well, I was looking through the receipts I always try to check, and about half of them had sodas. And, you know, things that obviously can't go forward, and they know better. None of the guys would claim that they're the ones that got the sodas. So I had to come down on them pretty hard. And basically I told him, like, if you know, if I have to, I'll give everybody a different card, and whoever charges anything on that card that's not supposed to be there, then you're gone. Because that's something I can't, you know, if I were, if I didn't see that and I passed that expense on to the client, you know, then that's, that's bad business, if not fraud, you know, and that, obviously, I wouldn't want to see all that kind of stuff, because they're already paying, they're paying a lot of money to get these places rehab, so that that was that. And I think those guys were kind of surprised, because we have a pretty good rapport. But business is business, and I don't want to lose a client that's, you know, 30 units, that's, that's it. That's a big client. So there was that one, and then, because of the same client we had, we need to get about eight refrigerators and eight dishwashers. So I had to call around, and I found a place, a surplus store, that could handle that much and then give us a discount, because they can't really negotiate prices like that, and, and, and, you know, I don't keep enough on the cards that they have to handle those kind of expenses. So that was another thing. So that's not really something they were equipped to handle. So I negotiated a bulk rate on those, and they're going to pick them up tomorrow. But you see, kind of see where I'm getting at there's certain things that an owner has to do. There's certain things that managers can do. Now, I probably could give one of those, one of the guys, the one I consider the manager, you know, he handles the repairs. He says, Okay, we're going to this unit. We're going to repair this, that day to day stuff. When people call and they've got something broken, he's the one that responds. He answers the phone. He makes sure everybody's at work, everybody's where they need to be, like he's doing all of that stuff. And I could probably give him, you know, a card with a higher limit so he could take care of refrigerators and, you know, huge amounts of supplies, stuff like that. But I. Would rather just handle that myself. It gets to a spot where I don't have the time to handle it then, then maybe. But after today, seeing all the sodas and snacks and stuff on those receipts, it makes me kind of, you know, second guess that decision too. So So there was that. Let's see the next one. So the landscaping company, the landscaping company, we bought all new equipment this year. We bought three, three big, right mowers. Is what in there. That's like the, I don't know it's like, one of the best brands you can get. They're supposed to last for a very long time. And so two, one of them, the blade fell off, and we've only been going in less than a month. The other one, the the hour meter quit working. And and the third one, the one that was one was actually a demo. It was the only one that was working right. The other ones that were brand new had, they just had all kinds of issues. So and the the one that was a demo that we got that was used the hour meter didn't work on it either. So it made me think that maybe the guy it had supposed to had 80 hours on it. But if, if that hour meter wasn't working, how do I know if it did or not? Maybe it hasn't been working for a year and a half and it's got 1000 hours on it, and I got screwed over on it, so I called him and basically told him my concerns and that we're considering, you know, getting rid of all these mowers and going with a different brand, and never, never going back to it. Well, he's he basically stopped everything he was doing. Said, Bring everything out. And he fixed it all right there. And then he hooked it up to, I wasn't there, but he hooked it up, hooked the computer up to to the mower that had the broken hour meter and showed, because it's on, if there's a there's a chip inside the mower and the motor that says how many hours. So they were really close. So it wasn't a situation like that, but, but still, who's going to handle that situation where you have, you know, I'm the one that made that purchase, I'm the one that chose that brand, I'm the one that did all of that stuff. So again, there you go. Like, I don't think I could necessarily delegate that. So that took a little bit more time then the septic tank. So the septic company from from this year, our year over year, numbers from last year to this year are down quite a bit, about almost 30% and I can't really put a, you know, some of it's the economy. Obviously, people are kind of opt to not switch out old, old systems and not, you know, not pump if they don't have to that kind of stuff. But the numbers are, are definitely down. So I wanted to try to nip that in the bud, because this is the season where, because of all the rain, just in general, this is like usually when we get a lot of of business. So I had to come up with a way to try to juice that a little bit. And I did some advertising. So what I did is I created some Google ads, and then I made an offer, a lot like, to get the reviews, an offer of, you know, free evaluation, you know, we'll come, we'll come to your house, we'll look at everything, make sure it's good, and then we'll look at your whole system, you know, all of that stuff will be for free. And we used to have a fee on that because sometimes you, you know, you drive 2030, miles in the big truck to somebody's house, and they actually don't want anything done. You know, we were charging a fee for that. So, so we're going to, we're going to eat those costs for a little while and see if we can drum up some more business like that. But I think, I think overall, it's just the economy. I think people are not spending money like they were last year at this time, because they're a little nervous and things are expensive and things are crazy. So that's kind of, kind of what I think is going on there. So then the next thing was, I so I've been telling everybody that a good way to make money on the side is with replit right to make those, those websites and people in the lives are all the time asking about the top 10 business site list, like, how do I find this? How do I get there? I'm like, why don't I just create a landing page for everybody to be able to get all the stuff. So I use replit, and I created one. It took me. This was yesterday. It took me about less than an hour, less than an hour to let me, I'll show it to you guys too. It's, it's actually not bad.

Unknown Speaker  14:37
Let me see if I can find where it's at.

Speaker 1  14:42
Well, you guys can can find it too. It's it's money language.com, money language, academy.com,

Unknown Speaker  14:50
oh, is it not working? Oh, I spelled it wrong. There it is.

Speaker 1  15:01
Looks weird now. Oh, something happened to it. Never mind. I'm not going to show it to you. Something's wrong with it. I'm going to have to go back and look. But, yeah, it took like, 45 minutes to make that thing. It probably just needs redeployed. And then so I was telling everybody, like, you can get cheap websites and stuff at webador or Name Cheap, you can get a domain name. So I went and got a domain name for it, the money language academy.com, and it's $1 a month for for that domain. So it's out there. One of these days, I'll do an act of like a full class on replit. I think that would be good, because you can create business sites with it. You can do advertising stuff with it. You can make apps. You can do whatever you want to do with it. And it's pretty darn smart, but yeah, so that was my week dealing with the day to day. What's up? Wally, you have a question?

Speaker 2  16:02
Yeah, actually, this is going back to that, that septic tank business that you mentioned. So you said that you were down 30% so is that? Is that something that, when you were first vetting the business, that you knew could happen that, that maybe it's not the most recession proof business, and you still went through with it, and that's, it's something that you were, like, willing to accept, but knowing that you could, you could push through.

Speaker 1  16:33
Yeah. So a lot of the a lot of that business is new stuff. So it's, it's installing septic into new construction. That's, that's a big part of it. And when I was vetting that business, I was relying more on the repair numbers to come through as and less on new construction. So it just, I think, I think that was probably a mistake. It's still, luckily, it's still a solid business, and it's still, it's still profitable, still paying all the bills, still doing all that, but, like, it's not making as much as it was so, so, yeah, I think, I think that could have been a mistake that I didn't, you know. I didn't look at where, where the all the revenue was coming from? Was it? What portion of it was coming from new business? What portion of it was recurring revenue? What portion of it was repair? What port? You know, there's also, like grease, grease traps from restaurants. They do that too. Like all of those are steady, recurring every month. You can count on those, but the variable ones are kind of all over the place. And I would like to to take that line from down here, all over the place to up here, all over the place. So we had a really like last May was a really good month for us. And I'm not saying, you know, the average is way down. I'm just saying from where we were, you know, two weeks into May last year, and where we are two weeks into May this year, that's the 30% it could turn around. It could turn around, but I like to spot those trends early and try to counter them.

Unknown Speaker  18:11
Does that make sense? Wally, yeah. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  18:21
Yep. So that was my boring week.

Speaker 1  18:28
So it can be a headache guys like, you know, you have to be able to deal with people, you know, there's a there's a different side of this. It's not all just, you know, checks and, you know, and fun stuff, there's, there's a lot of things that you have to do and deal with that you don't want to and you have to fire people, and you have to make tough decisions, and you have to be available a lot, you know, yeah, there's, there's no time where, like, if something serious is going on, that I can just, you know, shut my phone off and not be available. Like, I'm pretty much available all the time in case anything crazy happens. But that's the same way it's I've been like that with real estate for a long time too. Like, especially with the short term rentals. Like, things happen over the winter, we had two different nights where it was really, really cold and the the furnace went out, and I had to put everybody up in a hotel because there were no there was nobody in town that was available that could look at the furnace. So buy hotel rooms for everybody and put them in there so they're comfortable, like, so I had to take care of all like, that kind of stuff happens. So you, you have to be ready for those things and to be able to handle problems,

Unknown Speaker  19:45
because they are going to come up eventually. Keith,

Speaker 3  19:52
Hey, Shane, question, so going back to the septic, I've actually thought about buying a septic company as well, too, because it's like essential business. I. Uh, when you're when you're sending out, when you're sending you guys free estimates. Obviously you're eating that cost, right? Because you're paying for the labor other time.

Speaker 1  20:06
Yeah, okay, yep, yeah. I mean, it set that, oh, sorry. Well, hopefully with more clients, you know, this will be a temporary thing. We'll do it for two to four weeks and look and see if it's, if it's doing anything, if it's not, you know, maybe it's more of just increasing our SEO and getting to the top of the list in Google, you know, to when people look for septic company. Maybe that's better spent in that direction, as far as opposed to the free estimates. But you just got to kind of try things and see what works and what doesn't work.

Speaker 3  20:41
Yeah, have you thought about using AI more for for marketing?

Speaker 1  20:46
Yeah, I mean, and there are people that specialize in that. It's not something I know about. I haven't, I haven't done it, but, yeah, it's something I've thought about. I thought about hiring a service to do it, because I just don't know how to do it, yeah, but yeah, I have considered it. Okay, excellent, yeah. I really considered, at the beginning of this, of this mowing season for the landscaping, because we were, we were expanding, you know, we got more people, more equipment, and but it ended up happening, happening organically. I spent a whole lot of money on Google ads that probably I didn't need to I think, I think most people were just kind of call anyway, you know? So I, I don't know if it's hard to tell if those generated leads, because especially when, so when somebody sees that ad and just make a phone call and they don't, you know, you can tell you can tell you have a lot of clicks on it, but that doesn't mean that that it the lead actually came all the way through. It's easy when they go all the way through to the website, submit a form, all that's tracked, but when they just look and call you, just you really don't know about that. And most of our our business, our new customers, came from phone calls. So was it the ad? Was it just a sign? Who knows? You never know where it comes from.

Speaker 4  22:03
Yeah, I think I just want to comment real quick, like the Google. I think I tried it recently for my, you know, business that I built from scratch. I feel like those things, there's some catch to it's like those guys are tweaking something behind there. But what I did with the Google ad was, whenever, within the period the ad was running, whenever anybody call, make it a point of duty, like I have like a business coach too, who would tell me, like, Hey, did you follow through to know, where did they? How did they get to know about your business? Like, don't forget to ask that. So when you ask that, you will you will know definitely, oh yeah. And the customers are willing to tell you. They were like, Oh yeah, I saw your ad, or I found you on Google. Or they will tell you, yeah.

Speaker 1  23:01
Well, I mean, the guys that are answering the phone were on mowers, you know, so it's really hard for them to they're just, we're lucky to get the the numbers down and everything, and keep going. Next year will be they have a iPhone companies, so you can, you can actually hook up your business to an AI phone assistant that will, you can train it. You can have the common questions that are asked. It'll take messages, it'll, you know, it'll do all that stuff. So that's kind of our our plan for next year, because that's a weakness right now is that the there's two guys that are answering the phones, and they're also, you know, working day to day, so it's kind of difficult for them.

Speaker 4  23:46
I hope the AI works out. Recently, I tried the AI with insurance company. I could tell right away it wasn't a human history, because they couldn't follow through with whatever I was looking for. So they kept rerouting me, like recycling me round and round. And I got tired and I just let go.

Speaker 1  24:06
Yeah, I went to Elise chicken, and they have aI at the drive through, and I forget what I order, and they said it'll take 314 minutes before you order to be done. And I'm like, Well, okay, I don't think that's gonna work out. But I went there recently. That was the first time I went. And when they switched to AI, I went there a couple weeks ago, and it was fine, like they they fixed it up, but it was pretty funny that first time.

Unknown Speaker  24:33
Ernie, do you have a question?

Speaker 5  24:34
Yeah, I just want to add something related to AI as well. I also see a trend, like, where business owners they surprised that they have a lot of leads coming from, like a chat GPT, like tools, so if you have a good online presence, you can bring in customers. So like people will have some conversations, right? And it will give you a link to like Google Maps. Or so, I guess, if you have, like, you said, Build 10, like top businesses website, right? And maybe, I don't know, maybe some blogs related to specific region, so like chat GPT, or like Google gem, and I will know like your information, potentially my recommend your business right to the customers, right? So there is something new. But I think I saw like one lady, she she said, I'm getting a ton of clicks coming from the chat GPT, so maybe you can do some research about it. Yeah.

Speaker 1  25:38
So she's just using chat GPT to do our marketing totally, actually?

Speaker 5  25:43
No, she did nothing. But because your business has good online presence, like good Google reviews, or maybe, like a website, people who are looking for the similar, basically, they're having conversation, right with chat GPT and chat GPT recommending her as a business. So she's getting a lot of traffic coming from chat GPT directly. Yeah, it's not even Google yet.

Unknown Speaker  26:13
So that's interesting. It's something new, right?

Speaker 1  26:16
Yeah, yeah, definitely. Well, I know you know, the longer you use chat GPT, the more questions you ask it gets a profile on you. So if you ever, if you ever want to know what chat GPT knows about, you just ask it to write a story about your life. If you know, I tell it to act as an author, write a story about what it knows about your life and and then just see what it spits out, and you'd be surprised at what it's been listening to.

Unknown Speaker  26:45
Yeah, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  26:49
it's cool, but also scary at the same time.

Speaker 1  26:56
Does anybody have any other questions? I know this was kind of a short one tonight, but I wanted to. I wanted to, I think it was a it was a great question, because it's something we haven't broached before. And at the same time, I wanted to just, you know, it's not all peaches and cream. Sometimes it's, it's frustrating at times, but it's definitely, it's the same frustrations you get with just if you, even if you were just the supervisor at the job for a lot of it, you know, if you're the boss at the job, you have to deal with people. Or if you have real estate, like the stuff is just going to come up, problems happen

Unknown Speaker  27:38
just be ready for that. That's what you're signing on to. Okay, all right.
