Speaker 1  00:02
Shane. Hello, everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. And it is Thursday, October 9, 2025 Tonight's topic is roll ups. Business. Roll ups the strategy of acquiring a business, multiple businesses, for the express purpose of making roll ups. So I'll get into what a roll up is. But basically it's, you take several, you know, it could be anywhere as low as four, upwards of 100 whatever. I mean, it just multiple small businesses together. You bundle them as one and use you market them to larger buyers. And kind of the the reason why it works is you, you know, you buy a small business as a multiple of like three or four, and when you scale them and they're all together in one big, profitable group, your multiple becomes more like eight to 10. So right there, you can see the the benefits of it, but that's that's kind of the idea, and we're going to dip into that and and go over what that entails. So share my screen.

Unknown Speaker  01:16
Okay, hope this works. It looks funny. I

Speaker 1  01:27
it's making me my password in because it's weird. Oh no, will it's not going to let me share that. Dang it.

Unknown Speaker  01:45
Well, that is a bummer. Permissions, right?

Speaker 1  01:48
Yeah, I have to do permissions. And this is I have to close and reopen zoom. And if I close zoom, I think it's going to kill the meeting. So we'll just talk about it. We'll just keep it impromptu, because I don't want to close and have everybody rejoin. So let's do that. And I had a nice little image and everything, so you're going to miss out on it. You have to watch the video. But okay, so let's talk about a roll up in general. So a roll up is just an acquisition of multiple small companies in to create one larger entity. So it doesn't have to be all at once. You don't have to, you know, acquire multiple businesses at one time. As as a matter of fact, usually you you buy that first business, it becomes your flagship business. So your flagship business is the one that you set all your systems. You You have proven managers, you have everything documented, standard operating procedures, hiring, everything that you need to know in a recipe has to be all written down, documented and easily accessible, so you can take all of those systems and recreate it in another location. So that's kind of like your patient zero, if you want to, if you want to say that for your your roll up. And the goal is, is to ensure to achieve an economy of scale. Okay? So you just like in the community. We're able to, because we have the members that we do, we're able to negotiate a better deal for credit repair and capital stacking and all that. It's the same thing. Once you get to a certain size with multiple small businesses, you can get better deals on supplies, on inventory. You can get better deals on your bookkeeping, like all of your expenses per capita can go down because you are such a heavyweight in the industry that they will give you better deals just to keep your business that that comes with, I don't care what kind of business it is, it could be 10 landscaping but if you have 10 landscaping businesses, when you go to a lawn mower distributor, they're going to give you the best deals in the world, because they want you to buy from them, and only them, because you're going to buy 2025, mowers. So you become the big dog in the room. You have increased market share. So not only are you getting reduced expenses because of your economy of scale, but your market share in that particular industry is larger. So when you make a move like you change your pricing, a lot of people will a lot of other businesses will follow along with you, as opposed to doing something opposite with you, because you're the big operator in that industry, in that area, you also have better operational efficiency because you can, for instance, you can consolidate in maybe one of your locations, does all of the bookkeeping one of your locations you have. A marketing specialist that does the marketing for all the locations you have a single brand out there that you're building that brand, and building that brand and everything else is just cookie cutter. So it's almost like, it's almost like importing and exporting nations when we import, and this might be contrary to popular belief or sentiment right now, but when another country can do something more efficiently than the US can, it makes more sense for us to import that product as opposed to doing it inefficiently in our country, right? We save money doing that. And that might seem weird, but it's just that's economics, that's macro economics. That's how it works. So increased market share, and then also your multiple comes higher. So as opposed to selling one small business, when you're selling 10, you're selling 10 that are proven and battle tested and connected and synergistic, whatever you want to call it, to where you can get that multiple from private equity firm. That's more like 10. They're going to pay a premium for that, as opposed to that one, more risky, small independent business. It happens all the time in auto repair. As a matter of fact, there was a place in mid Missouri. There were they had about 12 different locations. It was called, it was custom, complete automotive and a place from Chicago, I think, I think they're Chicago, called Dobbs, bought the whole thing, rebranded them all to Dobbs, put up new signs, everything. Now they're all Dobbs. So Dobbs went from 30 locations to 45 or whatever. But it was, it was that kind of acquisition, and that would not have been possible for them if they had one or two locations, but because they had, you know, I think eight or nine, maybe it worked out. HVAC, it happens landscaping. It happens all the time. There's a place called All for one lawn care. It's in almost every city and within 100 miles in my area. And they're all the same company. They started all out small, they got a good model, and they just kept planting new businesses in different cities, all branded the same. The trucks all look the same. Everything's the same, but it happens, and you also see it in like dentistry. Do you guys have Aspen Dental in your area? Have you heard of aspen Dental? It's a it's a big, you know, dental company. They're all over the place. Same thing, I don't know. Is it different from a franchise. So in this situation, you wouldn't be looking to franchise or buying a franchise. That's a different model. This is specifically a roll up strategy for people like you and me, to get that flagship company and then recreate that on our own scale. It to a point to where maybe your exit strategy is, I'm going to buy all these, I'm going to use the cash flow to grow and to scale and maybe get some more leverage after I get a few of them, and get 1012, of these things, and then you get a huge payday at the end. It's a different situation, where the franchise model is you would still control the name, you control the systems, you control everything, but you're, you're allowing people to pay you for the seeds to start their own franchise, and then you pull franchise fees every month. It's a, it's a different model, but it's very, very similar. But yeah, that's, that was a great question, though. It's, it's, it's close to a franchise, but it's a little different. So the reason why roll ups work, I told you, economy, is a scale the valuation multiple, you can become more efficient, which it seems counter intuitive that a larger business with more locations would be more efficient, but it's that concentration of talent and concentration of skills that helps you so you have that one marketing department that handles marketing for every every single business you have. Also you can have situations where it might not be exactly the same business. For instance, you might have auto repair. You might have one shop that does, you know, just tires and quick lube and brakes. You have another one that does the big jobs. You have another one that does European cars. You have another one that that, you know, just does detailing or something like that, and they're all in the same city, you would cross pollinate, that you would be sending people back and forth. So if they go to any one of your locations and they need whatever, you just that car goes to the other location, and they do it, you know, but you're you're building because it can, they know that they can go to any. One of those locations and get everything done. And that's unheard of in auto repair. You're not generally going to go somewhere and be able to get, you know, a BMW, a new engine put in it, and get it detailed, and get the brakes fixed, and get exhaust and all that. You know what I mean, it's like, it's just not going to happen. So that you get that efficiency and that synergy among locations too. You get a stronger market position to where you can command better rates, you can set higher prices, you can do a lot of stuff because you're the you're the brand name in that area. People, people know they see the signs all the time. They see advertising they see, you know, the website, it just gives you more opportunities. And for people that just joined, sorry, I don't have a screen shared. It's not letting me share my screen because I got a new laptop. I have to work on that. So the types of industries that you would target for the roll up strategy would be kinds that are number one, highly fragmented. So the types of businesses where, you know, there's a lot of independent shops. So you'll see that in restaurants, you'll see that auto repair obviously, you see that in like pawn shops, anything that you think of that there are a lot of mom and pop local branches, local single store, entities that you could pick up. Those are the kind HVAC, plumbing, roofing, all the kind of stuff that we talk about all the time is being generally good. Businesses are ripe for the roll up strategy. They have predictable cash flow. They I've talked about it multiple times. They're considered eternally profitable businesses, which in the business world, that just means that they are simple to understand. They have highly predictable revenue. They are fairly recession resistant, and they're not easily disrupted by technology or advances or just social circumstances, anything like that. For instance, plumbing unclogging a toilet 20 years ago, it's not much different than unclogging a toilet today, it has not changed much. You know, you call somebody my my toilets clog. They send somebody out, they unclog it, and you pay them, and then you move on, right? That is pretty easy to understand, and it the barrier to entry for that is is pretty small. So you have a lot of those local places that you can snatch up and turn into one. They're easily replicated as well, that that's something else. So if you have something that only works in a certain area, like, I don't know, like something that's around a lake, like you have a really good business that's based around a lake, or you're renting jet skis and doing whatever, obviously, that's not going to work anywhere except for whether it's a lake or a body of water. So things like that are no brainers. And then you also want things that have high high demand and, well, stable demand and high margins, which these days, just about everything is a high margin, except for cash only stuff like ATMs and vending machines and stuff, the margins aren't real high. So how do you go about acquiring or even trying to build toward the roll up strategy that you do it just like we've been talking about, like even even the decade to decadence plan that could be actually a roll up. You just have to buy similar industries. So if you buy that that first business, you make that your flagship. You put all of your time into that one, into increasing efficiency, into documenting every process, to making everything easily replicated in multiple different locations, you have spent a lot of time training managers that can then train other managers. So when you're putting your time into that flagship, you're thinking about that manager that's there. Is that manager capable of going to a new location and doing what you're doing at this location. And not everyone is able to do that, but when you find those people that are they are able to plant that seed for that roll up into multiple different locations and and that's a hard person to find, but they are out there, but you have to pay them well, that's another thing. So you're looking for any any business that scales regionally. So you wouldn't want, necessarily, to have a ice cream shop in whatever your town is, and then an ice cream shop 1000 miles away. That's not what we're talking. Talking about here, they have to be fairly concentrated in a certain area, you know, like, within 200 miles. That's good. That's, that's a good radius, just like we've talked we've been talking about for the acquisitions. But if it's 2000 miles, if it's 1500 No, that's, that's not replicable, unless you have 2030, different locations, but we're shooting for five to 10. Then you want them in a Tri County area, four county area, something like that, very close to one another, where, you know, regional managers can go from store to store, make sure everything's, you know, happening the way it should. Everything's running smoothly, everything's cool. And then you have to think about your exit strategy. I've said this a bunch in these classes, but when you get into any investment, you need to know how you're going to get out what your plan is. I don't care if it's buying stocks, I don't care if it's crypto, whatever. I'm buying this now, and I'm going to blank and then I'm going to sell it, or I'm going to keep it forever, and I don't plan to sell it ever. My kids can sell whatever it is. You need to know the day you buy it, what you're going to do to get out of it, or if you're going to stay in it. So those kind of things work for roll ups too. So what you're looking for in that flagship business is the same things that we talk about, the multiple for the cash flow, a business that's been around for a long time, an industry that's recession resistant, that's already semi absentee, basically the Fab Five system like it fits right into this. But where the work comes is after you buy that business, and you have to sit down and tediously document every single thing that happens day to day in that business, so you have a full fat playbook that you can then give to a manager, or you can take to a second location, and when anyone ever has a question about anything, okay, how do we handle this? It's in the playbook. How do we handle this? It's in the playbook. And you train people from it. That becomes your, your, your, basically your gospel for everything about that business. That's your source of truth. You can always tweak it later, but you should have spent enough time in the flagship business that you've ironed out the kinks, that you've gone through the pros and cons, and this is a heavily, you know, tested and vetted group of systems and procedures that you know works. Because what you'll find is, if you go to another location, you're going to get pushed back, even if it's your first business, you're going to get pushed back from going to get pushed back from the people that are there. They're going to say something like, well, we've always done it this way, and it works really well. Well, I don't give a shit the way you've done it, because this is the way that we do it, and it works. And once they see that it does work well and probably works better, then, then they'll come on board now. Now there are the rare circumstances where their system might work better than yours. Okay, tweak it. You know, never be so rigid that you can't adapt to something better, but, but always try your system first.

Unknown Speaker  18:16
You really need to be

Speaker 1  18:19
meticulous when you look for talent and leadership in those locations, and then those people who will plant the new locations, because just like that first manager that you were looking for, for the absentee business, it takes that kind of person, plus someone who's willing to travel, plus someone who can teach, plus someone Who can delegate. It's almost like, like, finding a clone of yourself, or a younger version of yourself that's hungry and that's willing to put in the time, because they see the end game too. So that initial manager, you know, we talk about the 10% of, you know, net profit that you might cut them in on to keep them motivated to growing the business. You can do a similar type of deal where they get a portion of the sale for the full unit, you know, for the full roll up, because we're not in this to be Ebenezer Scrooge and, you know, swimming through piles of money, because you can do that, but that's a lonely place to be. That's a 70 hour work week, work work week place to be. You have to bring team members in, and the only way you can retain talent and team members is with high pay. It's just a fact. You get what you pay for, and if you don't want to pay for good talent, you're not going to have good talent. The other thing is, you need to consider the DSCR on all these places. So the DSCR is directly related to the cash flow. General Revenue means nothing if you have 10 businesses and they, every one of them, makes 2 million, million dollars a year in gr. Are. It doesn't matter if they're losing money. It doesn't matter if the you know they're making, each one of them is making 50,000 a year. You need to be efficient in each location. If you're not efficient, it's not going to work out. And then you have to think about the integration costs from moving your systems to the next business. But it is 100% doable. The financing for a roll up is pretty much the same. You know, you have your SBA option, you have your flagship that you finance with the SBA. You maybe hold on to that for six months or so. You get a track record of, hey, this business is profitable. It's working. My systems have increased the revenue from this to this where more efficient or highly profitable, you can get another SBA loan pretty easily after six months. Once you've shown that you've not missed a payment, you haven't been late, things are working out. You can give them financials to show that you've grown this business. Once you get to that situation, they will. It's more it's way easier to get more funding. You can still do seller financing on a roll up strategy. You just have to think about at the end, you know, you can't put the horizon out really long, because you have to completely own that business if you ever want to sell it to private equity. At some point you can bring private investors on, or even private equity if you want to. And you can just reinvest yourself. You can get that first business do the system where we talk about, where it's, you know, three years to pay it off and then refinance that, use that to buy another one. Because, you know, it will sustain a lot of different strategies there. So the the playbook, the strategy or or however you want to call it, the plan would be, you get the first business, you replicate it at the second business, same name, the brand has to be identical. Whatever your colors. You choose. The signage, everything. It's just like McDonald's. You know, anywhere in the world, you know, with some there are some extenuating circumstances, but anywhere in the world, when you go to McDonald's, you pretty know, pretty much know what you're going to get. You're going to have the red and yellow, golden, golden arches. You're going to have happy meals. You're going to have all this stuff, because that's the McDonald's brand. It's the same thing with these roll ups. If it's a plumbing company and you know, it's big Mike's plumbing, every one of big Mike's plumbing, every one of them has a purple logo with a plunger or whatever. It's all the same. And then your payroll systems are the same. Your bookkeeping systems are the same. All of every everything that you use is the same. Using the same software everywhere, that way you can get better deals when you buy the software packages your you know suppliers are the same all of that stuff, you're going to consolidate every single thing that you can about those businesses, and you're going to cross sell if you can. So cross selling means that what you see a lot of times is you'll have HVAC and electrical and plumbing companies. People will buy up those three types of businesses, and they'll bundle them together in a mechanic? Well, they'll call it like, I don't know, SD, mechanicals, and it's all the mechanicals you need for your house. So it's one holding company that has the resources to do all your plumbing, all your HVAC, and you know, everything, all your electrical work, everything you need to build a house that's not the framing and the siding and everything but the mechanicals of the house. Those are very, very effective roll ups and very profitable ones. And then you have to have a dedicated leadership development plan. You can't just rely on you can't wind one person up and expect them to do everything you have to have the training for leadership documented, just like the training for a cashier or a receptionist or a mechanic or whatever it is, all of that has to be documented too, and has to be highly replicable, because to get to 10 or 12 locations. You know, you're going to need seven, eight managers that are roaming around at least. Otherwise you will have one rogue business that can take down the whole cluster. So we already talked about the exit strategies. You know, the goal is to sell it to a larger role, you know, holding company that has more than you, or private equity or whatever. But here's the things that you need to worry about and that can take you down. And the most common prop, there's two the most common things that can take you down. On R you get cocky and you overpay for another location. You think, Well, I know this is overpriced, but it's a good location, and I can still make money. It doesn't matter if it's a bad deal. It's a bad deal whether you have eight locations or whether you have no locations, and all the rules still hold hold true. The DSCR matters and don't, don't fool yourself into thinking that because you have multiple different locations, that it's worth buying a bad deal because it it just gives you more numbers. You still have to find good deals. The other thing is that management not paying your managers enough to where you can handle multiple locations. If you're expected to go from location to location to location and monitor all this stuff, you're going to go crazy. And even worse than that is the businesses are going to fail because, you know, leadership, you have to have highly trained managers that are ready to go and are empowered to make decisions on your behalf. You cannot be a micromanager when you get to this level at all. You have to be comfortable and trust the people that you have empowered to make decisions for you. You can always tweak it later, but they have to be the type of person that can say, okay, no, we need to do this. This is costing us this much money a year. We're changing this. Let's do it. Because otherwise, you're going to get 1000 phone calls a day, and you're going to go nuts, and you're going to think, Why the hell did I even think I could do this? So I mean, you think Elon Musk is making the decisions for every Tesla dealership in the US. No, he has no idea what they're doing, because he has managers in place. They have training, they have technology, all that stuff, same kind of thing, but on a smaller scale. So overpaying, overpaying is huge cultural misalignment. So it's kind of like what I said with the you know, if you buy a rental like a jet ski rental place, you're not going to be able to put a jet ski rental place in a small river town, because it's not the same kind of thing, right? So just because it works in the city doesn't mean it works rurally and vice versa. You might have an auto repair shop that specializes in big trucks and mud tires and whatever in some country town that might not necessarily work in New York, because people culturally are different. They like different things, so you have to be cognizant of that. But the industries that it doesn't matter where you're at, it works really well, HVAC, General, auto repair, electrical, plumbing, landscaping, that stuff is pretty much the same wherever you go in the US with, you know, people's preferences might be different, but the model is the same. They somebody calls you, they say they need a service. You provide that service. They pay you. You keep doing it. It's, it's the same across the board, the same equipment, the the same payment platforms, everything. So those are the ones that work really well. So it's just like, just think about, when you're looking at these businesses, what your primary goal is, is it just to get that first business? Is it just to get your feet wet? Is to learn how this stuff works, and then maybe you're going to sell that and you're going to get into the industry that you really want. Or are you starting this strategy now where I'm going to buy this one. This one is directly related to this one. We're going to keep all the same systems in place. We're going to scale this thing to 10 or 12, and we're going to go from a multiple of four that we bought it from to a multiple of 810, 12. There, right there. You can see how much money you made. You buy, you bought a business, maybe for 300,000 and a multiple of four, and you turn around and grow that business and sell it for a multiple of eight, you know, you're almost doubling your money, right? You are doubling your money right there, including whatever you've grown the cash flow to. So think about that. When you scale it to eight or 10, you're talking about taking an initial investment of whatever your down payment was, say, $50,000 and maybe in 10 years, turn that 50,000 into 10 million. That's the roll up strategy that. And it seems impossible, but it happens all the time, all the time, so don't think that you can't do it. And private equity right now is buying more small businesses than they have, almost in the history of the US since the since the pandemic ended, private equity, like I think it's Blackstone, has. Been buying up HVAC like single entity, HVACs and cluster of HVACs all over the US. They've spent hundreds of millions of dollars, and a company and a firm like that that has that much money, if you can get on their radar with your little you know, eight HVACs that you bought over the last seven years, you will get a payday like you wouldn't believe, because they're just their strategy is they, they think that that's the future. They're going to put them all under one umbrella. They're going to put all their systems in place, and they just want somebody who to have done the initial leg work at the beginning, and you can make a killing. So it's a great strategy. Yeah. So sorry about the not having any slideshow or anything, guys, but there you go. Does anybody have any questions about that? I

Speaker 2  31:03
Hello. My name. My name is Wilson. I'm new here, so I just wanted to say hello to everybody. Hey, Wilson, welcome. Yeah, it's been first time here. I'm just at least I'm learning a thing or two. I just want to make sure say that I'm actually based in Canada. I don't know if you know a place called Saskatoon. So, so again, it's right now, because of the job market, I feel like, okay, what are the options for me? Maybe I should look at my business, because I do have some cash saved up, right? So, but I want to, also want everybody to navigate the terrain, because I know the process is similar to what's happening in the West, right? So, but I just want you to say, hey, how do I go about this without necessarily falling into issues? So I have like, three questions, even if you don't mind me, I've seen first of all, because I've been going through the what is it?

Speaker 1  31:57
Is it directly related to the roll up strategy?

Speaker 2  32:01
Oh, my God, okay. I just came in, so I don't know, I'm not sure where, what's okay,

Unknown Speaker  32:07
that's okay. So we can,

Speaker 1  32:10
we can, we can switch to the mentorship portion, and we can go through that. I just want to make sure, if anybody has any questions about roll ups in particular, we can get to those, and then we'll go to the mentorship. But I will get back to you. Wilson, I promise. Okay, thanks.

Speaker 3  32:26
So I do have a question about roll up strategy. Okay, so, I mean, even you explain it like that, it makes a lot of sense. I guess my question is, did I it, is the goal for it to get, like, bought up by private equity? Or is the goal for like, a bigger company to just buy it? Or is there, like, is there no goal at all, I just try to get it's just to for someone else to buy it.

Speaker 1  32:59
Well, it's for someone else to buy it because it's more valuable as a group. But generally, private equity is going to be your your target buyer. However, a larger player in the industry is also one like you see it a lot of times where, for instance, meta, meta, or x, or one of the big technology companies will buy a smaller one because they have a good product, right? So that was their strategy, was to have a bigger company. Same thing like this. Like, if you think about maybe you have a cluster of Quick, quick change oil places your your target would be private equity or Jiffy Lube, a big player in in the industry, might want to buy up your locations, but it's basically the same, same thing. You're, you're doing the same things you're you're scaling, you're being efficient. And you at the end of it, you don't care who buys it. You just want someone to buy it anyway, whether it's private equity or a bigger player. Gotcha?

Speaker 3  34:04
Yeah, no. I guess when you were explaining this, I was thinking car dealerships. And I know car dealerships are way larger scale, but you know, it's like, oh, yeah, you know there's one at one time, there's a lot of small car dealerships, and now they're owned by bigger groups.

Speaker 1  34:22
Yeah, in my area there was a big I considered him a big player. It's called Joe mawkins. Joe mawkins had probably 2025, dealerships in this area, and the McLarty group came in and bought all of them. The McLarty group has

Speaker 3  34:39
hundreds in my area. McCarty came in and bought up all the dealerships in my all

Speaker 1  34:43
of them, they are everywhere they own, I don't know how many dealerships, but they own a ton. So they're a larger player in the industry, and they have their systems and whatever they're obviously doing well, because they're buying up everything. Yeah. Know, but either, either one, as long as you get the right price for it, that's what you wanted, right? That's why you did it.

Speaker 3  35:09
Yeah, no, that's interesting that you you put it this way, right? Because I think when buying a business, sometimes it becomes so passionate and you don't remember your exit strategy. And so like, by putting systems in place, like, you're something, like you're automatically saying, like, I plan to get rid of this at some point, right? Yeah.

Speaker 1  35:28
I mean, the first one, especially, you're like, you just want to buy it so bad you you want to say, Okay, I'm a business owner. I bought this. You want to get your feet wet. You want to do that stuff, but you need to know ahead of time. And it doesn't have to be the roll up strategy. You're a strategy. Another one that's very viable is you buy a business, you grow it, you put a manager in place that manages it, you keep it forever, and that's it. You're fine with that. Another one is, you know, you scale it, you have a good manager, and you you sell or finance it to that manager. You have a retirement plan because that that person that's managing for you wants to buy it, and, you know, they, maybe they couldn't get financing or whatever, but they're the person on the other end of the deal, whatever it is, you just need to know before you get into it, what you what you want out of it. If you want 20 years of consistent cash flow, and you don't have to be there all the time. Great if you want to scale it to 20 different locations. Great if you want to turn it around in a year and then market it and sell it. Great. Just know ahead of time why you're doing it. Don't just don't buy anything because it seems cool, or shiny object syndrome or FOMO. You see other people doing it, buy it because you have a plan, whether it's crypto, a business, real estate, whatever, you have a plan. And if you don't have a plan, you shouldn't be buying

Speaker 4  37:02
it. Remember, in one of the previous classes, you mentioned that you met someone and, like, maybe some partner, you wanted to buy, like, 10 auto repair shops, right? And that, if you hold it like, what to, I don't remember exact number, but up to five years, right? You can sell it, and

Unknown Speaker  37:25
I think I found that tax exclusion,

Speaker 4  37:30
it's called the qualified Small Business stock, and so you don't have to pay up to 10 million. And if you buy it after July 5, looks like they made some changes. So they put them out. It's up to $50 million

Speaker 1  37:45
yeah, so that, that was something we're working on right now, which is, it's similar, it's a roll up. The the auto repair portion is a roll up. The other business was, which is the software firm. So the the roll up auto repair supports the software because so you'd have 10 different locations, you know, giving the revenue to that software company. And it allows you to have a proven, tested product, because it's used by 10 profitable auto repair companies, and because that was a startup, as long as you do it the right way, it qualifies for the that tax credit. So that was kind of, that's almost like a peripheral strategy to a roll up. You still have the roll up and all the benefits from the roll up, but then you also have this side thing going that you can sell and keep the roll up if you wanted to, you, you've almost, like, sprouted a side industry that you can sell, have very little tax burden, and pocket all of that money so but yeah, it's directly related. That's kind of the issue with that is trying to find enough auto repair at one time to be able to make that worthwhile. And that's, that's difficult, especially right now, when things are a little slow and people are kind of spooked and have hunkered down. But yeah, yeah, that's exactly right. That's, that's the strategy there, nice.

Speaker 4  39:16
And I think it says that the main requirement is it has to be S Corp. I mean, C corporation, right? Not the LLC or S in order to qualify.

Speaker 1  39:29
Yeah, there's, there's a lot of other stuff too, the little intricacies that my my business partner, he actually was educating me on that, because it's not something that I have done. You know, I'm not big on the startups. I like to buy something that's already profitable and and comfortable and less risky. But you know, this would come with multiple shops that are your customer already, so it's a little bit of a different situation. But yeah, yeah, when I. Percent,

Speaker 4  40:05
yeah, thanks. Who knows, maybe someday, like one of us can do this strategy, yeah,

Speaker 1  40:12
yeah, yeah. I mean that you just buy that first one, put your systems in place and scale 100% that's the plan.

Unknown Speaker  40:29
Okay, I'll go ahead and switch to the mentorship.
