Speaker 1  00:02
Hello. All this is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, October 23 And tonight, we are going to focus on where to find businesses and how to get how to get notified of early listings, how to find maybe some off market type deals, I get a lot of questions. I probably get in the lives, especially, I get asked this question more than than any other question, which is, where do you find these businesses? And then, you know, the last, let's say, few months there have, haven't, hasn't been a lot of movement in the market. So a lot of businesses, you know, they've been there for a while because they might not be a great deal. And the ones that were good deals are getting plucked very quickly and getting going under contract before you get a chance. So you want to be that person that plucks it quickly, and not not the one who missed out on an opportunity. So that's kind of what I wanted to go into tonight. Shane screen,

Unknown Speaker  01:07
okay, so,

Speaker 1  01:15
all right, so obviously, biz, buy, sell is the, you know, that's the blue chip listing site, right? And you guys, know, I'm sure you've seen the top 10 business listing sites that I've been, you know, pushing out for a long time. That has my favorite ones. We're going to go through just a few of them tonight. But what I do, what I these, you can see the ones that I have set up here, kind of where I'm looking. What I'm looking for is, is I set up searches to notify me the ones that I'm really into daily and the ones that I'm just kind of mildly interested in weekly. But I want to get every single day a notification that says, hey, you know, here's a new one. And then instant alerts if there's something that comes up that really is right in my wheelhouse, all the stuff that I like, the price range, everything I want to be notified as soon as possible, because I'll jump on it quickly before someone else gets a chance to get it. So let's just look at these so you can see kind of what the criteria looks like. So in biz, buy, sell, you have to create a an account. You don't have to create a paid account, but you have to create an account in order to save your searches and get notified and it will you will kind of get spammed a little bit so you don't have to use your personal email account. You might want to use a burner account that you can just ignore. I do that a lot. I have one kind of burner account that I use over and over and over again, so I don't I keep the notifications off most of the time. So So let's look at the filters that I like to use. I generally don't put anything on the revenue or the cash flow, because I don't want it to be just outside of my range and possibly a good deal and miss out on it. But I keep it pretty wide open. You can see that, I mean, I don't really have anything in the fancy stuff. I don't put in real estate. I don't put any of that stuff. I don't Hi, I don't say must have seller financing or allow absentee owner. Because I just want to know anything that's new in my area under my, you know, liked industries, and you know that being service industries, so I always want established businesses, asset sales and real estate, but it's not a requirement. But you know, if it does have real estate, that's that's great. And then industries, for this one, I've just picked service businesses. So that covers quite a few, that covers, you know, like landscaping, that covers auto repair a lot of times, but usually auto repair, you'll see it in automotive and boat and service. So service on biz, buy, sell, usually, though, like HPAC, plumbing, electrical, that kind of stuff. But yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:15
pretty wide open.

Speaker 1  04:17
And then so that that's biz by sell. Everybody's familiar with that one, so let's go to biz quest. Sometimes I think biz quest is more user friendly than biz buy, sell, in a lot of ways, it's so easy to put in your you know your listing criteria and what you're looking for, you can see that the interface is almost the same. It's like, I don't know which one came first, but they copied each other for sure that it even has the same kind of details that you can you can click on, and if you want to narrow down, you can, but like I said, I just, I just put those details in there. And you know me, I don't like startup businesses. I want something that's established. It's. So I will unclick that and I just leave these open. Sometimes I, you know, I will filter out franchise if possible, but it's not that big a deal, okay? So when you're done with this, you have everything that you want. For instance, this is auto repair, building and construction, hair and beauty, all the kind of service stuff that we're talking about, and then just save the search. Okay, you can save that. This just happens to be in Nevada. You can say, I want it daily, weekly, monthly, or never. But you can, if you want to save it and never get an alert, you can so you can go back and just click the button go to your account if you want instant alerts, and if you want to allow the sellers to contact you directly. And that would be ideal for a for sale by owner. You know, you are looking for a business that is it that fits what they're trying to sell. You know, why would you want them to shop it around, if they will come directly to you? Because there's a lot of timid owners out there that don't want their business out in the open as for sale, because it's easy to lose employees like that. Most of the time it's very secretive that they're selling. Okay? So, yeah, you could just save that search, call it whatever, and you'll get your alerts. Okay, now Flippa. We can go to Flippa here. Flippa, if you guys remember, Flippa is the one that's more tech related. You got businesses from all over the world, YouTube channels, e commerce, all that kind of stuff, but it works pretty much the same way. However, you have to do an account. You have to actually have a paid account to be able to save and get alerts. So this is what they do. You have to join premium, and they will actually alert you before they even list it here. So if it meets your criteria, I'm not sure I've never actually paid flip before it because I usually don't find businesses that I want on Flippa. They tend to be overpriced or too risky for me, but it's good for absentee businesses, especially tech related, e commerce, that kind of stuff if you want to work from home. But you know, you just have to check this every day on your own. If you don't want to pay for the account, it's probably expensive. I'm not gonna, let's see.

Unknown Speaker  07:29
Let's see what it says.

Speaker 1  07:31
50 bucks a month. I don't really think it's worth it to me, because, you know, it's of the three. It's probably my least favorite of the three. But you know, if this is the one that you like the most, maybe it's worth it. But, yeah, you have to do a paid account and also. So here's one that people don't think about Craigslist. Craigslist is still a thing. I'm always surprised. I expect when I come back to Craigslist that it's not going to be here anymore, but it's still there. So if you go to Craigslist, you click, business, okay, and then you can put, I'll put 200 miles from zip code. Okay, the owner sales. Now, okay, the thing is, you're going to get a bunch of equipment and a bunch of crap like that. So you kind of the only way to really get rid of that stuff is to put a minimum in here. So if you put like, 85,000 you're still going to get some stuff, but you're going to get a lot more actual like businesses and real estate. There's a landscaping company, food trucks, there's a, you know, more real estate, butcher shop, HVAC, that's inventory machine shop, like you can see, these are all for sale by owner. They're not listed on the fancy sites generally. Oh, there's a there's a strip club, there's a towing business. I mean, there's a lot of stuff out here that you're not going to see anywhere else, but as far as I know, you can't get notified on this. This is one. I just come and look and check it out and and see what's there. I don't do it every day on this one, but you can find some gems on here, especially if you're looking for seller, financing for sale by owner. This is a good one, okay? And people don't, don't think about Craigslist and Facebook, right? If you go to Facebook, you simply type in business for sale, and you do the same thing, you know? You put this like 75

Unknown Speaker  09:51
85,000 something like that.

Speaker 1  09:56
See what comes up. And you're going to get look, there's a hotel for sale.

Unknown Speaker  10:00
Oh, bakery, car dealer with auto repair.

Speaker 1  10:12
I have to go look at that one. That's a new one, but a large shop, sometimes just the real estate, but this is, this is a good way to find it. You can also look for groups, if you just go to

Unknown Speaker  10:31
to the groups there.

Unknown Speaker  10:36
So business for sale by owner.

Speaker 1  10:43
Boom. These are all businesses for sale by owner, gas stations, that kind of stuff. There you go. Be careful with these, though a lot of times they're overpriced, but there you go. But that's kind of what I do. So I keep the searches. I mainly just put my searches in biz by sell and biz quest, and so that keeps me apprised of what's going on there with the bigger, larger businesses that are more probably primed to sell, and the other ones, I just check on my own. So I come through and I check, probably not Craigslist every day, but I do check. I do check at least one of these every day, just to see it's really easy to like, especially on my phone, to go to Facebook, check it out. Like all my feed these days is business equipment. It's businesses for sale is people talking about businesses for sale like you, you can tell the algorithm is learning what you're into.

Unknown Speaker  11:49
So, yeah, I know it's

Speaker 1  11:53
it's kind of a small topic, but I wanted you guys to just get an idea of when you feel like you can't find anything for sale go to a different site. Just because something is on biz quest doesn't mean it's on biz, buy, sell.com, and vice versa. It's just like when you're looking for real estate, you're looking to buy a home. Just because it's on Zillow doesn't mean it's on Redfin. Just because it's on Redfin doesn't mean it's on Trulia. It's just that's just how it goes. Everybody has different contracts and different zones and stuff like that. And you might also find that in your area, one of these listing sites is even better, and additional to that, if you start inquiring on businesses, you reach out to the brokers, and you'll get on their list. They'll start sending you things. They'll they'll, you know, you if you're consistently reaching out to them, they'll send you their newsletter. They'll send you new businesses for sale. You'll start getting phone calls from some of them. They'll say things like, Hey, I know you got, you know, you signed an NDA for this business in this city. We have a similar one in this city. Are you interested that kind of stuff? You just start to get a rapport with those people. And you can actually just reach out to brokers in whatever city that you're looking at and and say, Hey, can you put me on your mailing list? This is what I'm looking for. I don't want a buyer's agent, unless you do, but I always tell them I'm not looking for a buyer's agent. I'm just looking for a deal so and you know, you just want them to think that you're legit, that you're a player, that you're that you can actually close a deal. And if they feel like you can close a deal, if you if you speak the right language, and you know what you want, you're looking for a business that's listed for anywhere from 250 to 600,000 or whatever your range is, and you're looking for at least semi absentee in these industries with this much seller discretionary earnings. You know that kind of stuff established for this long all the stuff that we talk about all the time, if you kind of spit that stuff out to them, they know that you've been researching and doing this for a while, so it helps, because it'll put you higher on the list. Okay, does anybody have any questions about that, or maybe any suggestions, like your favorite sites that I might not have gone over tonight? I

Speaker 2  14:26
the one. Try meeting, um, any of the brokers on biz by sale,

Speaker 1  14:32
meeting them like, uh, no, not on biz by sale. I've done it with local brokers, but not, not, no, not biz by sell, because I'll kill them on the phone quite a bit, but that's about it.

Speaker 2  14:44
Yeah, I was wondering like that was a good idea to also find off market deals.

Speaker 1  14:50
I mean, it's possible, you know, they all they care about is especially if they find a business that matches what you're looking for, and they feel like they can get a quick sale and not. Have to worry about listing it and going through all the drama and all that stuff all the because then they don't actually do any work. You know, it's like a pocket listing for a realtor. A realtor, someone comes to them and says, I want to sell this home. And that realtor says, oh, that's the kind of that's exactly the kind of investment property that Shane buys. And they call me and they say, this is getting ready to be listed. You want to look at it first and make an offer. They have done no work. They haven't done pictures, they haven't done a listing, they haven't done anything other than they're going to, you know, do the contracts and you sign it, and both sides are happy. I'm happy because I'm getting a deal off market without competition. The seller's happy because their house is going to sell so quickly, and the realtor just made out like a bandit. Same thing with with business brokers,

Speaker 2  15:46
that's good. And I also, um, like, when I will go and like, see their um information, they will also have, like, a website in their bio as well, which would be like the company's website. And they will also have extra listing on there as well. I have went to some of them so far, but they been really pricey. Like, the they've been having on their websites has been really

Speaker 1  16:08
pricey, yeah? Like, just really big businesses, you mean, yeah, just not good

Speaker 2  16:14
deals, really big businesses. And you

Speaker 1  16:21
can just simply Google loop net always comes up here. I'm not a big fan of loop net. It's okay, but most of the time it's just commercial property and not really a business. But let's see. Let's, let's find a broker. There's another one business broker.net, do so this, I don't think is in every state, but it's another one that you can look at too, sans investment group, is I get, I get stuff from them all the time, because I got on their mailing list, and they drive me nuts with stuff, actually, and they have my personal email that was a mistake, and I can't cancel, but they do send me all, all kinds of stuff. But, yeah, I mean, it's just, it's a it's a matter of being consistent, persistent, and, you know, casting a wide net and making sure that you don't give up. Because that's what happens, you know, you look for a week or two weeks and you don't see anything good, and you just give up. You know, that's what we do. We think, well, there's not going to be any good deals.

Unknown Speaker  17:38
There will be eventually. There always are,

Speaker 2  17:41
yeah, because I've been getting a lot of emails from biz by sale. They've been having a lot of new businesses on their website. Now, it had me thinking like this, maybe that's something that they're doing, like, at the end of the year, all the businesses try to rush and sell. But I've been seeing, like, a lot of emails from business myself.

Speaker 1  17:56
Yeah, I think we were just talking about that earlier. I think that, you know, in the fall, people want to sell their they want to go one more summer. And they'll say, Okay, I'm going to, I'm going to get this. I'm going to use this summer to get ready to sell. Or I don't want to go through another winter with this business. I want to start fresh. I want to sell it this winter and then start fresh next year with whatever. Yeah, I think, I think there's something to that. Usually this happens in the spring. A lot of people will sell in the spring. I didn't see that this year. I don't know if it was because of interest rates or the economy necessarily, but now we're seeing it in the fall. So that's awesome.

Speaker 2  18:36
You know? That's I have another question, like, not pertaining to this, though. So you just said that the government is shut down. That's really true, like it's shut down right now, because I work for the post office, so that mean I'm not going to get paid, right?

Speaker 1  18:50
I don't know. I mean, I some people are getting paid, some aren't getting paid. I don't know how that works with the post office,

Speaker 2  18:58
yeah, because I'm asked, because I really need to know if I need to go to work or not.

Speaker 3  19:05
Makes their money based off of all the postage. And they, you know, they don't. They're not really, like, supported by the government, exactly. But anyway, I know they're not shut down, or you're not gonna not get money.

Speaker 2  19:22
It's gonna have a good break, because I will not be going today, not paying me,

Unknown Speaker  19:28
I don't blame you. Okay. Does anybody else have any questions on this topic?

Unknown Speaker  19:39
Okay, all right.
