Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy, and I wanted to take a little bit of time right now to talk about our, one of our own landing a business, and just kind of how he found it, how he vetted it, and then how he's going to bring it all the way home. But just, I just wanted people to know, you know, that this is very possible. You know, the community has been running since March 10. That's when it officially started, and people have been learning a lot of stuff, and now we, we already have one of the members that is getting ready to land a business that, from what I've seen, of the numbers, is a really good deal.

Unknown Speaker  00:41
So Tran man, tell tell us about what you got going on. Alright.

Speaker 2  00:47
So yeah, my name is Quan Tran. I joined probably really close to March. I want to say it was maybe like the beginning of April. And basically how I found it was just really following the videos. So the videos the advice. You know, even when we were on things like this, our meetings, we got to ask questions. I know I asked probably way too many questions, but yeah, so that's what I did. I kind of just, it's a big grind, all the different websites and, you know, biz, buy, sell and all that, it's a lot of denials I had. Couldn't tell you how many, like, 100 denials, at least, or, you know, false leads. I think that's what I'd lead with, is if they're gonna follow Shane's example, just know that you kind of have to be committed. Well, you really have to be committed because it's a long, long grind, and I'm still not done with it, meaning, if you're going to do it correctly and vet it, you'll have, I think I had five possible businesses that led pretty close to purchase. But you know, between having the like interviews and vetting the profit and loss statements and IRS tax statements and things like that. You find that there are some people that are that are trying to put their dirty laundry on you rather than just trying to get out of a business. I knew the best way to do that is honestly, and maybe it's just for me, but it was having that interview, that one on one talk. It's harder for people, I feel like to lie to your face. You kind of get an inkling when you're when you ask them the hard questions about, you know, where are these, you know, where's this cash going? Or, why does it, you know, why does this look funny? Things like that. And I never led with that. I led just like Shane said, you know, it's really just talking them about the business and started and things like that. But then slowly, kind of get into the nitty gritty, the hard questions that you need answered. So I guess I'll just jump into it. So I found an H back business, and I basically did all of that. I followed all the roles, the seven it's been

Unknown Speaker  02:57
open, yeah, well, it was on. It was on all three.

Speaker 2  03:04
But, yeah, biz, buy, sell was the start. So it was really, it was a difficult buy, but basically it had seven employees, one foreman.

Unknown Speaker  03:17
It's been open for, I want to say, 24 years.

Speaker 2  03:21
I um, but it had two owners. So he does. He hasn't had it for he's had it for seven, more than seven years, but not all 24 and then it's a it's an H back business, so it's a recession resistant kind of business. And it made the cut, so it was more than the third that way that we asked for. So if the buying price was 325, and the cash flow was 156, at a high and 120s this last year, because he's kind of was letting it go to the wayside. I'll also preface that I'm in a unique situation. I don't mind helping anybody with this unique situation, but I have a couple ties that helped me out. My really close friend from from childhood, he's a regional manager at an SBA only bank, so he has a lot of ties that helped me out with getting that SBA side. I have my own, like, lender that dedicated himself to me and things like that, and that's because they deal very closely together. But yeah, so it was a big, kind of a long process of vetting it, talking about it. The guy sent me, you know, his PNLs in the start. We looked at it. Looked great. He sent me the tax information a couple days later, the only struggle was honestly the broker so and I know I told Shane this, but I didn't tell everyone else but the broker. I've never met somebody that was so rude, and we ended up finding why, and it's because the broker wanted more money. So he wanted it all in cash, and so he was kind. Of vetting for himself. So once I got to speak to the seller himself, a lot of doors opened up, because the business is originally 650

Unknown Speaker  05:10
but then I started talking to the owner,

Speaker 2  05:14
and he loved, like, the passion that I came with, and, you know, already had a whole slew of ideas and things like that kind of how we talk about, you know, know your your your lines, you know, know, know how you're going to sell it. And so he wanted to stay in the business and do a joint venture. So that's what we're ended up doing. So it's going to be especially with H back. And I know I mentioned this before on on one of the Tick Tock lives, but just know that things like HVAC and plumbing and roof repair and these, these things like contracting, know that they're good because they're resistant, but you also have to have contract certifications with them. So you have to have with HVAC, you have to have a minimum and really plumbing, a lot of stuff. I don't know. I can't say the years, but I know for Arizona, it's four years of experience before you could take the test to get contracts, to officially get contracts, or write contracts for people. So he's going to stay in the business for two years, and then we'll see from there. But essentially the way we have it written is that every for the first after the first two years, I'll have say so. And either he can keep 25 and be a silent partner, or we could buy him out at that next valued market price. Because I think if he's going to help build it up, you know, he should also reap the benefit room too. I'm not a, not a greedy guy, so that's, that's the write up. So whatever we buy them out will be the will get it reanalyzed, and we'll buy them out at that price, but he's going to help out with everything on the inside. So then it's a benefit to have them on there, because there's things that I don't know about architecture and very specific H back pieces. So I'm going to learn that for two years, and I don't mind cutting half, because it's still a lot. I'll still take home the current projections and the stuff that I've seen, where the contracts will still take home, I think, like 112 or something like that, on the first year after everything's said and done. And that's with we're giving the business back 15% of our stuff, because we're splitting everything in half, so at least 15% is going to go to the business itself. So yeah, and then, you know, we'll find out from there if we end up being good partners, and we'll keep them on, and if it's not, then it's already written in the contract that I have say so for how it's going

Speaker 1  07:31
to go nice. So as far as the terms of the the financing, like, what would you would you settle out on?

Speaker 2  07:40
That's also a little bit different. I didn't do any credit stacking. I come with a little bit of a benefit of having my house for a while. So I did a HELOC. They gave me 100,000 for the HELOC. So that's going to be coming, like next week, I think, or the week after something like that, whenever they I'm already in the shoot for that. The terms are 325,

Unknown Speaker  08:04
for the business, with the 10% down for the SBA.

Speaker 2  08:10
And then yeah. And then we have that, that counter term, where, if we want to fully buy them out, then we'll buy them at market value two years later.

Speaker 1  08:18
Okay, nice. Do you have a closing date. Yeah, June 30. June 30. Nice.

Speaker 2  08:25
Okay, sorry, do you have to pay more than 10% on the SBA because it's under 350 right? So I think it's 400 was the number that the CA guy said. But yeah, he said it was just 10% Oh, nice. The 400 was his limit. Of saying, No, we got it. That's when it becomes 20% and there's a couple more conditions with ones that are over 400 so this kind of saved because we could do half and half.

Speaker 1  08:53
He's saying over 400 would be 20% he said, at 400

Unknown Speaker  08:57
is that limit

Speaker 2  09:00
for his specific bank. And he says each, each, each bank does, does their own lending type, but for, for his specific bank, 400 is a 20% break. Okay, gotcha. And then they also do something with your house. They need your house on lean or something like that, like as collateral, or, I don't know, it's very bank specific, so don't take that doesn't

Speaker 1  09:23
bank, but that's cool, though. So what, what interest rate did you end up getting?

Unknown Speaker  09:29
8% okay, that's actually really good.

Speaker 2  09:33
SBA, and again, I want to, that's why I wanted to lead with my friend is kind of behind the scenes, and really like tugging the strings saying, like, hey, scratch my back. I'll scratch yours. I think the normal for their bank is 10.5 though, right now.

Speaker 1  09:49
Gotcha so did you were able to use the like the analyzer at the beginning and see what the

Speaker 2  09:56
Yeah, absolutely used all of that. I. And the analyzer was my biggest saving grace with every business that, like the five business I was talking about, just because we could break it all down. And that also helped with speaking with the banker, because you can get all those terms that they love, like the DSCR and things like that. And he's like, oh, you know what that is. And I was like, I just learned. But I get they love the confidence, because when we showed the projections, your projections are exactly what they want to see. So you definitely hit the nail on the head when it came down. That whenever I was I basically just read, you know, whatever you gave us. So I read right off. And this is the cost of the business. I've already estimated. This is what I'm going to pay it off. Because, you know, when you click, like, the Loan Summary and stuff, I broke it down really easy for him, and he's like, dang, you made my job easy because you just had it all. I think it's paid off in like, eight years. It wasn't even paid off in the full 10 or whatever. And so they like seeing that you're already projecting everything out nice. So yeah, that that helped. And even the first five it vets and makes you ask those questions. Like, when you're looking at things, you're like, Wait, why isn't this? Why isn't this fitting? Or it'll tell you an automatic no is way under, because there are some that the numbers look good. And then you start doing the projection, and they'll kick it out.

Speaker 1  11:10
Okay, that's that's really awesome. Man. Congratulations.

Unknown Speaker  11:14
Appreciate it. Super cool. Does

Speaker 1  11:18
anybody have any questions? Quan, before we go into the class. Okay, awesome. Well, thank you for doing that. Thank you for Oh, Ernie.

Speaker 3  11:31
Ernie, yeah, congrats. Shane, yeah, that's a great news. Quick question, when you say 50% back you're giving to the business. What does that mean? That means, like, you sharing the profit with the employees, or you just, like, how does it work?

Speaker 2  11:49
So it's only it's, yeah, 15% we're putting for for anything. So I also plan on following because my company does it. But Shane also talks about this, where you do stock shares and things like that, but to do that, you have to have a separate fund, and so that 15% gives back, you know, if you need to buy a new truck, or if you want to, you know, give them money in those stocks, you have to show you. Have to vet out that money so they can, they can purchase, you know, pieces of it and things like that. Yeah, so it's all the encompassing journey. It's everything. And it's going to be every year. So whatever we hold on to is going to go back to the, you know, employees, you know, trucks and things like that. Because if we start, I feel like, for me personally, if I see the money, I feel like it's already mine. And I, you know, I already have 100 places where it's going to go, but if I don't see it and I put it back into the company, in its own bank account, it helps me a lot more.

Speaker 3  12:45
Yeah, that's great. And what about like you said the previous owner, you're going to buy him out after two years. So is there any, like, a fixed percentage of the projected like, the value? Like, always, you're giving him, like, 50% right of the profit,

Speaker 2  13:07
Yep, yeah, it's also, and that's what Shane kind of, I'm sure he'll get into with, with his detail stuff. But when you see the purchase agreement, and you can also get written up contracts with lawyers, so that's what I'm doing. We're mixing the purchase agreement with also the lawyers, and so it'll be whatever the market value is at that two years. And that's just for fairness. I could have said, No, I'm only going to give you 325, because that's what I owe. There's a lot of different things you could do. You could pay the owner. You know, we already went through all of the decisions, and that was our I felt like to benefit both parties evenly. It seemed like the best, best bet, but there's a ton of different things that you could do. But yeah, so they'll reevaluate the business at market value, just like we're doing now. The SBA basically looks at, you know, all your projections for the last three years. They'll say they'll vet it out and what do you own in liquidity in the business? And then they spit out a number of this is what it's worth. So we'll do that same thing. And yeah, and so, you know, it'll be a five to seven years. It won't be automatic. I'm gonna, not gonna lump sum in five to seven years. I'll pay off that whatever that amount is. But it stops at that amount. He doesn't gain anymore, as the business does better.

Speaker 3  14:19
And it's gonna be 50% of that right amount?

Speaker 2  14:22
Yeah, because I'm only purchasing, I'm technically purchasing 51% and that's a whole nother veterans thing, because we can get special contracts on your veteran and things like that. So he's allowing me to get 51% he's getting 49 but he still has equal say. I don't want to take that

Unknown Speaker  14:38
from him. Wow. Great. Yeah. Thank you.

Speaker 1  14:42
Good question. Thank you, yeah, that's a great question. Danielle, do you have a question?

Speaker 4  14:46
Yes, and congratulations. That's amazing. It's very inspiring. I'm wondering when you were looking and vetting this business did, like, how did it become a job? Point, mentor, like, was that something that the owner, like, put out there that they were interested in on the front end? Or is it just like you guys arrive at that, that agreement along the line?

Speaker 2  15:11
Yeah, that's a great question. No, we, um, absolutely did not. And that's kind of the hard part. So 650 and I was willing to pay for the 650 originally, um, and that was the problem with the brokers. He wanted 325 up front to make his life easier, and then the rest can be whatever it was an SBA loan. And I finally just said, Hey, you know, we're having a conflict. You're not really helping me. Can I just talk to, you know, the owner, so we could really vet this out? And I talked to him about, like, my little dreams about it, and where I want to take it, and things like that. And he just loved the passion so much. He's like, Well, that's what I was missing, is, is, you know, the passion. He's like, You have everything that they have, and I would love to teach that to you. So it was a, it's kind of like you're saying it was, it was birth through conversation, just that we had everything ready, especially what Shane gives us. You had everything ready at the door, so they already knew you were confident, understood the business and the teaching side is what he can do for me. And so that was a it was kind of on the fly.

Speaker 4  16:13
What was he What was the reason why he was selling retirement, or what

Unknown Speaker  16:18
he lives in Utah? So he was finding that it was hard to

Unknown Speaker  16:22
get contracts fly back and forth and things like that.

Speaker 2  16:27
And that's the I should I should mention. I mean, I'm in Arizona, so, yeah, so it was like a 12 hour flight or something. No, no. 12 hour, 12 hour drive. Sorry. So it was one of the things that Shane talks about, or people move away for whatever reason. So he's one of the move aways, but he's a, he's a rather, I think I'm a year older than he is. Yeah, I'm a year older than he is.

Speaker 4  16:51
Do you have experience in HVAC? Yep,

Speaker 2  16:55
I do, in a sense, I work in construction. Oh, yeah. So, so we do a little bit of HVAC, but I don't have I understand the building part. I don't understand the architecture, the bidding, the schmoozing with people and having dinners and things like that. If I can get on a roof and talk about the electrical and the refrigeration and stuff and even then, I'm not an expert, but I know enough to get myself in trouble, but I definitely the mentorship will help me.

Unknown Speaker  17:27
Thank you for sharing. I appreciate it.

Speaker 1  17:30
It's super cool, because I love that. You know, once you get it's like I've been saying this whole time, once you get to the owner, and you build a relationship with that owner, you know, a lot of people think you can't compete with private equity, or you can't compete with someone who's coming in as a cash buyer, but at the end of the day, an owner that has put a lot of time and resources into a business wants to see it run by someone who is almost like a protege that's going to carry it forward to the next steps, going to take care of the employees that's going to be a good captain of that ship Going forward, you know. And they're not going to get that from private equity firms. They're not going to get that from big corporations that want to come in and franchise and things like that, you know. You just, like, you just don't want to see somebody come and chop up the this thing that you've built and for the sake of profit, you know. So, yeah, that's, that's a great example of exactly that. Yeah, congrats. Stran, super cool. I really appreciate you taking the time to to talk about it. I know it's kind of it's kind of weird talking on to a group of people on Zoom, but thank you.

Speaker 5  18:38
May I ask you a question? Sure. Hey, Shane, congratulations. That's awesome. Hey, as I'm sure everyone's already told you minutes, but anyways, what were some of the selling points that you were telling the owner, like, as far as your dream and your vision on how to make it better?

Speaker 2  18:58
Honestly, it's all the stuff that we've been talking about Joe, the profit sharing, things like that for to keep employees and gain more employees. I run an educational system for my current construction company, so I help, like the younger guys, the craft guys, learn the things that they're afraid to learn to become a foreman and things. So I want to do that as well, and just it does benefit me to have it sounds bad, but it does benefit me to have people like my best friend in my and, you know, in on my corner, because he's taken me to lunches and things like that, where it's a bunch of businesses that shake hands and things like that. So if you can meet a broker or a banker and get that link where they can, you know, talk to with people of similar job spaces or tied jaw spaces, is what I was talking about, that I've already been even when I'm coming, I'm going back to go see my friend this weekend. It, and we're going to go do the same thing, and I'm actually bringing the owner so he could see it into those handshakes and things like that. And so it's really is that personability of conversation, the ease of conversation, and showing that that we cared about the business, we wanted both the employees and the company to grow, that I had the vision of building vertically, that was kind of the biggest thing, I think, because I let him know that I wanted to, it's commercial HVAC, and I want to go into residential as well. But I also want to go, you know, I had a five, you know, a two year plan, a five year plan, a 10 year plan, where I want to go, like, roofing, solar and things like that. So I kind

Speaker 5  20:38
of, that's how I wanted to hear. I was like, what was, what was the grand vision? I didn't know if you were gonna, yeah, like, AI into, like, the sales caller or anything else that, but yeah, you just, you just, yeah,

Speaker 2  20:52
I did point those out. But he actually has those. So it wasn't, it's kind of a loop point for him. He's like, I already, already used stripe and everything else. And I was like, but, yeah, so it was really the the project, you know, just studying about the business and knowing where I could build vertically, rather than just buying businesses that I'm unaware of. That was actually one of my, my friend's business partners told me that he's like, Well, just build vertically if you're new at this, because it gives you, you know, space to grow and and you could bring smaller businesses. Because I talked to him about Shane's, you know, his rules, and he said, Well, you could kind of bend the rules if you build vertically. So if you build vertically, you don't always have to have seven employees and things like that. Like it's still a good thing to go off of, but it allows you to build a little stronger.

Unknown Speaker  21:41
Awesome. Thank you for sharing.

Speaker 1  21:45
Super cool. So I'll go ahead and stop this to start the.
