Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is July 10, 2025 and tonight we're going to continue along the business acquisition route. And what I wanted to talk about tonight is we get a lot of questions about laundromats. And I don't care how many lives I do, I'm going to get five, six questions about laundromats. What do you think about laundromats? What do you think about laundromats? And then number two would be, car washes. What do you think about car washes? But especially laundromats. Laundromats are the hot thing right now, and I'm not down on laundromats so much. Just the situation of a laundromat, I think the some of the most absentee businesses that are out there, I think that it's a good starter business, if you, you know, you don't want to have worry about payroll. You don't want to have to worry about that, you know, I mean, you're, you're essentially hiring someone to come in and clean. You're hiring someone to maintain the machines and stuff like that. Those are all just services. So you don't have to worry about payroll. You just have to worry about paying an invoice every month that comes in for those services. So it makes it very simple. It makes the bookkeeping very simple, because you're not paying, you know, workers comp and like all you know, all of that kind of stuff, it's very, very simplified. With that being said, there are so many people looking for laundromats right now. We have. She's not here tonight, but somebody in the community is buying laundromat right now, and she was the the one out of, I think she said 300 that reached out in the same week, and she actually landed that business because she was able to, you know, offer over asking and all that. So it's like, it's definitely a seller's market when it comes to laundromats. So anytime, I don't care what it is, if it's real estate, if it's a business, if it's used vehicles, it doesn't matter. I don't want to be a buyer of those types of assets when it's so skewed in the seller's favor. You know, you want to be on the other side of that so. But I still wanted to go through and kind of look at this business, so we can check it out and see the particulars of it, because I think it's a it's a good example of what you can find on marketplace, because it lists so many of the particulars of the business. It's great pictures. There's financial statements like they've laid it all out for everyone to look at. So I thought it might be a good opportunity

Unknown Speaker  02:36
for us. So I mean, get into the listing itself.

Unknown Speaker  02:43
Okay, hopefully everybody can see this.

Speaker 1  02:49
So this, this has been listed for quite a while, so I'm kind of surprised that they haven't found somebody that wanted to come in and flip the business, because you get a lot of people that think, Okay, well, this is kind of a struggling business. I'll come in, I'll put some money into it, I'll advertise, I'll modernize, I'll do whatever. I think there's opportunity here, but they still haven't been able to but that doesn't mean that people aren't interested. So it's a great location. This area is a place that's not far away from Mizzou University of Missouri, so there's a lot of students in the area. It's a place where there are a lot of casinos.

Unknown Speaker  03:30
It's a good area.

Speaker 1  03:32
It's open seven days a week. You don't have to be no one has to be there full time. They don't have wash and fold or anything like that. But it's a situation where two couples just went in together and partnered on this one couple was local, they were handled the cleaning, and the other one, the other ones, I assume, brought more of the money, right? Probably some friends thought, hey, let's buy a laundromat together and see how it goes. But obviously, what they didn't do was really look at the financials, look at the time requirement, and properly vet the business and do their due diligence. So what it shows here is, you know, one of the couples lives in Colombia, which is like, I don't know, 45 minutes away, something like that, from from this area. It's not that far, but they have kids. They can't go out there all the time. They were relying on this other group to take care of things, and then, for whatever reason, that has fallen through. But let's look at the numbers themselves. So they purchased in 2020 for $93,000 and they were able to get five year seller financing from the original owner, who had, you know, been there since 2004 apparently, they mentioned that the repairs, they mentioned some of the updates they've done and all that. But what I really wanted you to see here is. The revenue. So this thing is only making, like, let's call it $5,000 a month. It's making $5,000 a month, and then you're paying 1000 for rent. You're paying 2000 for utilities, that three, that's 3000 and then you're paying 100 so the most it's ever going to make is, let's just call it $2,000 per month, like at the high end. Okay, so they put in $93,000 it doesn't say what kind of a let

Unknown Speaker  05:32
me get these buddy in.

Speaker 1  05:35
It doesn't say what kind of a down payment or anything like that. It doesn't say interest, I don't think, but there you go. So and if you notice, this does not even include how much they're paying for their you know, their note, their their five year note. It doesn't even include that. But they listed this. They got hundreds of inquiries. They were overwhelmed by inquiries, because everybody wants a laundromat. So you've got hundreds of people clamoring to get a possible 16, like $1,300 a month in profit. Or you do all the cleaning yourself. You drive however far away this, this is from where you live, and you, you spend, they said 10 to 15 hours a month. Their selling point was, you spend 10 to 15 hours a month. And then, if you, if you do your own cleaning, and that's 90 to $138 of an hour that you're making to clean all this dirty nastiness that happens in the laundromat. So I just wanted to show you that even though it's a laundromat in a good location with a lot of potential, if you don't run all these numbers and follow it all the way through to the end, you're you can be in a situation just like these folks, right? They thought they were doing something good. They partnered with somebody else. They did all the right things. They thought they got seller financing, probably for a pretty low interest rate, all that stuff. Okay? They updated some of the systems, and it still is not working. So you always have to follow that through. And what, what they didn't do was they didn't use the system of the 3x okay, if they would, they would have known this is not a good deal. They didn't think about, you know, the cost to have someone come in and clean it. They relied on a partner to clean it, and they didn't have a contract, apparently, with that partner for them to handle the cleaning and stuff like that. There's just so much that went wrong with this deal. But I wanted to start from the beginning and just show you, let's, let's plug this into the analyzer and see what the numbers look like. But first, let's go through the pictures. It's not a bad looking little place. You know, the machines don't look like they're in bad shape. It's not dingy. I mean, it seems like it's okay, right? Even, even the bathrooms, not bad. And there's been some pretty gross bathrooms and places like that. So here's their, you know, it's not from an an accountant, but this is what they're calling, you know, their P and L, okay, so we have these numbers, so let's look at the analyzer. Everybody remembers this, right? So let's look at what they were going to pay. What they did pay for. They paid $93,000

Unknown Speaker  08:36
okay? Cash Flow.

Unknown Speaker  08:44
When we say that's going to be like 24,000 right?

Speaker 1  08:47
Because we said approximately 24 or 2000 a month, that was even a little on the high side is more like 18.

Unknown Speaker  08:55
Let's call it 24 Okay, already,

Unknown Speaker  09:02
let's see. What was that? 48,000

Speaker 1  09:05
was about 4000 No, it was about 5000 we'll call it 60,000

Unknown Speaker  09:10
Okay, FF and E,

Speaker 1  09:14
I don't think they said that they doesn't really matter. They didn't have any inventory. Sorry. Shane, yeah. Can you lock? Can you allow me in? I want to log off my cell phone.

Unknown Speaker  09:31
Sure. Sorry. I didn't see, sorry, guys, I

Speaker 1  09:35
didn't see people waiting. Sorry about that. Guys. Um, so for the people that just joined, we're, we're analyzing a laundromat here that somebody sent me on marketplace, and it's not, it's not a great deal. But just wanted to show everybody what it looks like. Okay, so we plug the numbers in. This is what these people saw when they first. Thought about buying this. $93,000 asking price, $24,000 cash flow, $60,000 revenue. We don't know what that is. Let's say, say 20,000 I don't know. I'm just guessing. I don't know what their machines are worth. But here you go. So if they put in, let's say they got a really low interest rate with probably 10% down payment, surely, and the number of payments it was five years at we'll say it's, it was a low we'll even give them a five year or a five year, 5% interest rate. Okay? Now this works potentially for a bank, depending on the bank, usually they want, like, 1.1 or 1.25 on the DSL, DSCR, but some banks will go that low if you have a good personal credit, you have cash reserves, things like that. But when I see a number on a DSCR that looks this low, and I see this a lot of times, whether, whether offering seller finance, why would they be offering seller finance? Because no one else will finance it. Okay? Everybody sees that. Oh, you know, this is cheaper than a brand new truck. This is cheaper than, you know, this is something attainable. It's a smaller number. It's not 500,000 it's, you know, it's not a million dollars. It's not 300,000 it's 93 grand. My neighbors got a cyber truck. He probably paid more than that for the cyber truck. I can, no matter what, if this is a failure, I can eat this cost and I'll be okay, right? That's what, that's what people think. They think too small, and it corners them into deals that possibly nobody else wants, okay? And I think that's exactly what this deal was. Now, if you think about our system that we've been using, this is an obvious bad deal for everybody that's been in the community that's been looking at these numbers. You can see, for one thing, anytime there's red in this analyzer, you know, there's a problem, right? And it even says, right there, 1.25

Unknown Speaker  12:15
anything less than 1.25 not a good deal.

Speaker 1  12:19
The multiple here is 3.9 we always want something that's three or less, and you can see that this is going to have difficulty paying the debt and giving you any money whatsoever. So generally, what's going to happen in a deal like this is you're going to spend a bunch of time dealing with it, so you're going to miss out on other opportunities that you could have had because you're swamped and stuck in this deal, because you were too scared to make a bigger deal. And I think that's that's some that's common for people that are getting into wanting to buy a business. It's common for people to get into real estate too. They see a property, a Class C property, class you know, like a really rough property, but it's only $35,000 it's in a bad neighborhood. It's has a, you know, a lot of damage. Well, I can go in there and fix it. Well, you go in there and fix it, but it's a terrible location, it's a terrible setup, and you end up getting bad tenant after bad tenant after bad tenant, and you're stuck. And when you you know you think five years later that you're going to sell it for a profit, and you sell it for 37,000 because no one wants to buy in that location. It's the same kind of thing. Sometimes you have to take more risk than what feels comfortable. And just because they could eat this 90, 93,000 and it wouldn't probably negatively affect their life for very long. They're still stuck with this business years later, and it's been on, listed on Facebook marketplace since, I think, what is a February, something like that, or March. March. Yeah, it was, so it was updated in March, so I don't know when it was actually, oh, 17 weeks ago, officially. So it was listed 17 weeks ago, in a time where everybody and their uncle wants a laundromat, and they got 1000 inquiries, and yet here it still sits, because nobody wants it, right? And this, to me, this is, this is like worst case scenario I would rather. I would rather buy a business for half a million dollars that still makes money, but takes more of my time, because at least I'm, at least I'm making money. But the worst case scenario for me is all your time is taking up. You're driving back and forth to this place, you're spending all of this time and effort, and you're not really getting anything in return, and no one else wants it. To me, that's the ultimate bad deal, you know, because you you're. Stuck. You got a lease, you've got everything, and you can't sell it. That's why there's that sweet spot of the 300,000 to a million, those businesses move those businesses. People want those those things make money. It's easily easy to see. And these poor people have even put everything out there, but the businesses is such a turd that they can't even get a broker. Probably no broker is going to touch this because it's too small. No bank's going to touch it. They even look. They even put all of the washing machines and everything in there. Okay, so just because there are people out there saying laundromats are great, you should get a laundromat, I bought this laundromat. It changed my whatever. Doesn't mean it's a good deal. Okay, so be careful and don't buy a business when Well, let me just say it's relative for everybody, right? But if a business is going to make less than $50,000 a year, I don't think it's worth it. You know this, ideally, this business made 30,000 at best, that's not going to change your life. Really, you're going to spend a lot of time chasing pennies instead of earning dollars without working for, you know, without,

Unknown Speaker  16:30
without having to put so much time in so

Speaker 1  16:34
and I've been, I was guilty of this at the very beginning too. Like I would look at these businesses for $50,000 that were like home businesses, of like E commerce and things like that. There's, they have a website that's okay. And I thought, well, that'd be great, because you don't have to go anywhere. You're only risking $50,000 and it makes, you know, possibly 10 still not worth it. These, these businesses are not worth it. Um, um, see. So let's, let's look at those numbers a little bit more, and then I'll get off my soapbox. Stop trying to scare people. But um, yeah, so remember, if you see this red here, it's not worth even looking any further, like if it's already so close or below the 1.25 you just need to find a better deal. I don't care how much, how much the business is is valued at, or how much blue sky is in the deal, how much potential is there, if it's not currently making money and supporting going to service that debt, it's not even worth dealing with. Okay, yeah, let's see. And you can see, so even if they had 5% okay, they're actually look how much they're they're going to pay. They're paying double, you know, over double. They're paying 208,000 to pay that thing back at five years, 5% which is very low, something that's not even making money.

Unknown Speaker  18:19
Yeah, it's just sad.

Speaker 1  18:21
It's very, it's a very sad situation. And this is this, I believe, is the effect of people saying that it does, it's not hard work, and it's not, it does like anybody, anybody can do this, but it requires somebody who's going to put in a lot of work, because due diligence is the most important phase you could find. You can find businesses for sale all day that look good, but until you spend hours and hours and hours and hours making sure it's a good deal, you don't you should not ever feel comfortable with just just going ahead and doing it like these people obviously didn't have anybody to help them. They didn't know any better, and they still did it anyway, and now they're buried under this thing. So So yeah, that's all I was getting at. Just be careful. If a deal is really small, it can still be really, really dangerous, okay, and still requires the same amount of effort to for your due diligence and and a lot of times the same amount of time that you put in it

Unknown Speaker  19:29
for very little return. Does

Speaker 1  19:33
anybody have any questions about that? Like, I know there's a lot of people that like laundromats, and I'm not saying laundromats are not good, but this particular one not good. Also, you have to put down 20% right? Since it's a small deal, yeah, if you were to go to a bank, yeah, they're going to want 20% because these are the bank, the bank can say. Is these the riskiest deals around. It's not making much money. One big catastrophic problem, one one problem is a catastrophe in a business like this, because the margins are so slim, there's very little extra. It requires, you know, a lot of work and very little return. All you have is as an asset to back up that loan is those washing machines that are maybe worth 20 grand. So they're gonna, they would want at least $25,000 down, I would assume, which is why they sell or financed. And probably the only way these people are going to get out is to seller finance to somebody else. And those, those people will be in the same situation there

Unknown Speaker  20:50
anybody else have

Unknown Speaker  20:55
Okay?
