Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everybody. This is Shane with money. Language Academy is Thursday, November 13, 2025 please forgive my voice and the cough drop as I go through class tonight. Tonight, we're going to be talking about a real estate related question that we got last week, which was how to properly structure a partnership when you want to invest. I've, I've had the good fortune of having pretty good investment partners. When it comes to real estate. I have not had a partner in any of the businesses. But with real estate, it's, it's really nice, and you'll find a lot of people don't want to be bothered with real estate, but they like the idea of being invested in it. So that's where people that are go, getters that are willing to put in the work, and maybe not have the available capital to do it on their own, can put some sweat equity into a deal and less money and more work, and then come out at the end of it, as you know, equal shares with the person that put in a lot of money, and everybody's happy because the person that brought more capital didn't have to do any of the work. You're happy because you instantly got extra equity that you would normally have not gotten, or maybe, maybe you wouldn't have been able to qualify for the loan. There's a lot of different reasons why you would want to use a partnership. So figured we would get into that because there are a bunch of horror stories out there about getting into a real estate deal with a bad partner and what can happen. And you know, life happens. People get divorced, they, die, they go to rehab, they just, you know, they want to drain bank accounts and take off, like all kinds of things can happen. So if it's you know, somebody that that you're just like, meeting for the first time and maybe had a real estate event or something like that, and you can't just trust people. You have to get everything on paper. You have to keep yourself safe, just like in all the business transactions and everything. So that's what we're going to talk about tonight.

Unknown Speaker  02:20
Okay, so, so let's get

Speaker 1  02:23
into it. So what we're going to talk about is how to form an effective, legal and profitable real estate partnership. You need to understand how the partnerships can be structured, what the clauses mean, the different types of partnerships, you know, the dip and the different types of partners themselves. And you know, you want to avoid some common mistakes, which mostly the common mistake is you just don't get down on paper what the agreement is. You know, these handshake verbal agreements mean nothing if you don't have it on paper, even if it's on just notebook paper, and everybody signed it and stuff is better than a handshake deal, because no one has ever held to any standard with a handshake deal. So partnerships are good because you can combine with more people, you can combine more money, more time, better credit and more expertise. So you know, it's just like the strength in numbers that we talk about all the time in the community, we get together, we pull our resources, we pull our knowledge and our wisdom, and we're stronger as a group for it's the same thing with partnerships,

Unknown Speaker  03:32
but a bad structure can lead to

Speaker 1  03:35
conflicts, fights, divorces, You know, all kinds of fraud and just all kinds of bad things can happen with the wrong people in the wrong structure. And they always say verbal agreements kill good friendships. So if you have a friend, and you know, their friend might have an expectation of what, how this is supposed to work, and you have an expectation, but you haven't put it out on paper to make it plain and clear, then those you know, expectations might if they're skewed a little bit, it leads to infighting and bitterness and someone being feeling like they are, you know, being take advantage of something like that. So we want to avoid that at all costs. So let's talk about the types of partners? No, the first type is an equity partner. They're the one that's going to bring the money, or the majority of the money. That doesn't mean that, you know, both people can't be Equity Partners and be 5050, and all that that can, that can absolutely be it, but, but an equity partner, traditionally, is someone who is just going to bring money and probably doesn't want to bring other stuff, whereas you have on the other side an operating partner, where they're going to handle the day to day, they're going to deal with tenants, they're going to deal with rehabs, they're going to manage they're going to collect rents, they're going to do all that stuff. They're going to make sure that the books get done. We'll talk about in a little bit, but they'll make sure. That the K ones get sent out like they're supposed to tax time, that kind of stuff. And you have a credit partner, which a credit partner might be somebody who is just their name is going to go on the financing. They're the ones with 800 credit score and nothing bad on their credit. And you know, they're the ones that are going to go through all the stuff, maybe they have a relationship with a local bank or a mortgage broker or whatever, to where they can bring a good deal and almost like a guaranteed approval for the loan. And just because there's these three main types doesn't mean that any one person wouldn't share those roles. You know, one they might be an equity partner and the credit partner. You know, you could be the operating partner in the equity you know, it just depends. It can be structured in all different flavors, but those are the three main types of partners you're going to have in real estate deals. So the structure of the partnership is also very important. So a joint venture would be just like a one thing, one time thing, and, you know, and it could also be an LLC. So the way that I do it, and I have been doing it for a while, is I just create an LLC, and in the operating agreement, in the LLC, we will just put all of this stuff down. Okay, you're bringing this much capital. We are, you know, the equity stake is going to be 5050, whatever. All of that stuff goes into the LLC operating agreement, and then we buy the property, and then we transfer that property into the LLCs name. So it's kind of a weird thing, because if you're using a DSCR loan, or if you're doing a, you know, a larger property to where it's maybe a five, five units or more, you get a commercial loan. You can finance those directly into the LLC name. The LLC can get the financing and everything. But if you're not, if you're buying a duplex, a single family home or something like that. You're not going to be able traditionally, to finance that directly into an LLC. So what I do is me and my partner, we so we take turns financing. He'll get the financing once, and then I'll get it the next time, back and forth, but both of our names go on the deed, so that way, you know, when we transfer it, we transfer it there, and we've already, we've already signed everything LLC is created. And people say all the time, they're like, oh, you can't transfer an investment property to an LLC because it's the due on sale clause can be invoked by the bank, which technically, that's true. I mean, I guess if they really wanted to, but they never do. They never, ever, ever do. Because what they want is they want to just make sure that you continue to pay your bills. That's all they care. You continue to pay that mortgage. They're fine with it, but it's better to be transparent and just reach out to them and tell them what you're doing, and if you can do it beforehand, talk to them, but when you're securing the loan to begin with, this is my plan. Did you know there's nothing shady going on? Because they're going to find out when you change the insurance. Because when you transfer that to the LLC, the insurance has to change to have the LLC name on there instead of the personal owners that are on the deed. And they notify the bank so they will know that's that's pretty much how you how you get found out when that happens. So there's the LLC, and then there's a limited partnership. So that's more for people that are trying to get in, fully passive, into big syndications. Big syndications are like somebody might buy or build 100 unit apartment complex, and they look for 20 investors to get in there, and but there's only going to be one or two, actually operators, so they will be completely passive investors in a limited partnership, and all they have is, you know, a certain, like monthly stipend that comes to them, almost like a, I don't know, almost like a mutual fund or something like that, or a certain amount of equity or whatever. But they have basically no say in the day to day, what goes on with the syndication. Excuse me. Okay, so what you have to do in the partnership agreements is you have to definitely define the ownership and equity splits. So the deal that I do with my partner is he'll bring 75% of the down payment. I'll bring 25% of down payment, and then I manage. He doesn't have to worry about anything day to day. Now, if there's a big expense, we will also split that big expense, 7525 he, you know, if there's not enough, like, say, say, we buy a building and the HVAC goes out right after we get it. We don't have, you know, it hasn't accumulated in. In the war chest and the savings for that property. To pay for it, we have to come out of pocket to pay for it. It'll still be 7525 that's that's how we have our deal structured. So he's always in it for a little bit more money, but he doesn't get any calls in the middle of the night, and he's not showing the apartments, and, you know, none of that stuff. So you have to define how that equity is going to be split. And just because we do it 5050, doesn't mean that you have to, you know, it could be 7525 maybe that's what, he's what the partnership. And maybe it seems fair to you. Maybe you don't want as much risk. Maybe you don't, I don't know. Or maybe you're going to go 7525 and then there's a property management company that's going to manage it. So you're still not managing but you're just bringing you're just bringing a lower number. Just, there's so many different ways you can do this. And then you want to define the capital contributions, who pays what and when and how much, so the down payment, how much was paid, the, you know, any big expenses that come up, who's going to pay for, if you get things refinanced, who's going to pay for just anything that could come up? You know, you have to complete. You have to account for just about everything. And we'll get into the weeds of it in a minute, and then your profit and loss distribution. So how much money are you going to get out of it? Are you getting it monthly paid? Is going to be a yearly check like, Okay, we made 10,000 on this property. Here's your 5000 here's my 5000 how much money is going to stay in the savings account for that property to cover capital expenditures, repairs, maintenance, all that kind of stuff, all that's defined in the contract, and then the management writes, who makes the decisions you it needs to be clear who's going to decide? Okay, this place needs it needs foundation work. We're going to pay for the foundation work, and we're going to have this company do it, and I'm going to write a check for it. And whatever you need to have someone that's making those decisions. The committee kind of thing doesn't work. In my experience. I mean, somebody that's part of the management. You just deal with that. You find the you get your quotes and you find the best deal. But things need to get fixed. You don't want to be waiting around for someone to say, yeah, go ahead. Or no, let's wait. You just you need that autonomy. Somebody needs it anyway. So for the profit and loss distribution, gotta decide on how the cash flow and the profits are split. So you can go 5050 you can do an investor weighted where, if they brought 70 and you brought 30, then you can keep that split. And then there's one that's called a waterfall. So maybe someone's going to bring the full down payment and they're worried that that they're not going to get at least their original investment back. You can, you can do it waterfall with preferred returns, which means like, Okay, the first 25,000 we make on this goes to you after that. You know, we split it 5050, or the first 10,000 go to you for all the closing costs that you paid for. And then after that, it's going to then it goes to you until your down payment is repaid. And then we split. There's a lot of different ways you can do that, but that's a waterfall. It's just think about the profits kind of cascading down, you know, blocks, and at each one they're paying somebody something. And then so, so there's an example of it, right? Maybe the investor gets 8% preferred of the equity, and then a 7030 so no matter what, if you've got, say, you you make 100,000

Unknown Speaker  13:40
in a year, then they're going to get 8000

Speaker 1  13:45
before anything is split. They're guaranteed 8000 if you made 8000 so if you made $8,001 they would get $8,000 you would get 30 cents, and they would get 70 cents. This is kind of how it works. And then capital calls. So you got to clarify when more capital is needed. So expenses, things happen, right? Maybe it's not going well. Maybe you're you've had to evict a bunch of people, or your rehab costs more than you thought it was. Or, you know, the insurance wouldn't pay on a roof claim. Something crazy happens. Who's going to pay, when situations like that, and how that has to be clearly defined. Vacancy is probably the main one. Insurance are pretty good about paying for storms and damages and stuff like that, but vacancy can get you, you know, the market turns maybe they built a huge brand new complex, and there's not as much demand for the apartments. Things happen, and you want to include a clause, if you can, if you can get them to agree with it, that their ownership will be diluted if they're not doing what they're supposed to do, so especially on on the person who's managing so. If the person that is managing is not doing their job, and you have to step in and you hire a property management company, or you have to do it yourself, maybe they lose 5% a year until they take over again and do what they're supposed to do. So that's that keeps people on the straight and narrow and keeps them working. And then what happens if you want to exit, or one of the partners wants to exit? So for instance, you might have four people in it, and one person is just, they need, you know, they want to buy their own home. They want to take their equity out of that. And then, you know, buy a personal home. They need that money, or they got sick, and they need that money to, you know, sustain their life while they're getting treatment, whatever you have to define how they're going to do that. So are the other partners able to buy them out? Are they able to sell to another partner, you know, to bring someone else in. Do the other partners have the right of first refusal if they do get to sell? And then what happens if they die? What happens if they become disabled? What happens? You know, in Missouri, if I enter into a contract, my wife is automatically in that contract, in the deals with me, where that's just how it works. In Missouri, her name doesn't have to be on the LLC. She's an implied owner, and vice versa. So what would happen if you get into a deal, a real estate deal, with someone that's married, and then they get a divorce, and their spouse is demanding that they sell, like, oh, I or now, you know, I own 50% of this person's share, and I want to do this. All of that has to be defined generally. You know, like for death, it would go to their children, but maybe their kids are assholes, and you don't want to deal with it. So maybe you want to put in there that specifically, that that does not happen, that in case of death, disability or divorce, this happens, and then you you need to define a way to do the valuation for the buyouts. So say you bought a property for 300,000 it's now worth 400,000 you think, how do you determine that? Obviously, the the way that most people would do it is an appraisal, and then you get your numbers from there. But you know, you have to define that too, because, and even even down to the company, maybe you want three appraisals, and you're going to take the average of all three, and every partner brings their own appraiser, something like that. There's a lot of different ways you could do it. So the operating agreements is basically what I've been talking about this whole time, where, where you're putting that. That's the contract. So it's a written document, and includes all those rules, how much capital? What happens with the profit and losses and disputes. Dispute resolution is a big thing. So maybe you don't agree with the partner on whatever it is, and the contract has a little wiggle room. It's a little vague. Someone has to make that determination. If you guys just completely come to a stalemate, and you can put, you know, dispute resolution, you go to a third party and they decide, or whatever. There's a lot of different ways you can do that. And then exits, but remember, always have an attorney Look at this. So I have, let's see. Where did I put it? We're here somewhere. So I have a sample right here. Now. This was, you could easily use this sample, and it's just a simple operating agreement. I think there's another one for an LLC. Couple of them we have for LLCs out there, but all I did was have chat GPT write this up with some some parameters that I put in just so you could see it. There's nothing wrong with doing that, as long as you take it to an attorney and make sure the attorney looks over it, and it'll save you a ton of money. If you have them actually write it up themselves, it's going to cost you about twice as much. But you can see it's pretty straightforward. It just talks about, you know, forming the LLC, who the members are, what their ownership percentage is, how much money they're bringing in, what their roles are, voting rights, distributions, accounting, the bank accounts, even so you know, because there's going to be potentially a lot of money in a bank account when the rents start rolling in, especially on larger like complexes and things. So I like this where you can say, No one can pull out $5,000 in a chunk without both parties approving. So that way, you know, maybe you're not the one managing, but someone else is. They're not going to be able to take out 30,000 and and run away and never see them again, something like that. I like that to keep you, keep you a little safer. There's just dispute resolution. Um, as far as, like, arbitration, but there you go. It's, it's pretty straightforward. It's not like a bunch of legal mumble, jumbo and everything, but this can save your bacon when you go to court. Okay, so let's go through a couple of examples. So maybe Partner A has $100,000 in cash. Partner B manages the rehab. They're going to do 7030 with a 5% management fee. So that means that the person that is managing that manages the rehab, you know, they might get 5% of the profits just for managing that and for managing the property too. Or maybe it's just they're taking 5% out of the profits to give to a property management company, whatever. But it's all defined there. So what they're doing is this values the person doing all the work, but also protects the capital too. Here's another one. So maybe you have three people and you want to go in on a duplex. Excuse me, maybe each of them puts in a different amount of equity. You know, one puts in cash, one puts in management, and one puts in the credit. So, so maybe it's a $300,000 duplex, and you're going to put $75,000 down. One person's bringing 75,000 in. The next person is not bringing anything. They're just going to do the management. The third person is just going to secure the loan. They're not bringing anything either. But at the end of that, it goes in the LLC name, and all three are members. And then you align, you know, your equity accordingly. Here's the huge mistake, right here. Handshake deal. You think, okay, I know this person. This is my cousin, Jed, and he's a nice guy, and I can trust him. And next thing you know, all you don't you're not speaking to one another. You can't see each other at the family reunion. You hate each other. You're mortal enemies because you didn't have the stuff outlined, and now jed's taking you to court and he wants the whole place, or Jed got a divorce and his wife wants the whole ex wife wants the whole place. Whatever that stuff happens all the time. I don't know if you remember, we were talking about partnerships with that. It was a laundromat, and two couples bought the laundromat, and then it was failing, and the one couple was the managing couple, and the other one was doing nothing. And can you imagine the the amount if they didn't have an ironclad contract to to decide, you know, maybe one couple wants to sell and the other one doesn't want to sell. You know, they they want to wait it out, and everybody's losing money. It's just it can be a disaster. You have to think about all this stuff. Another mistake is to just assume that 5050 is going to be fair. It's not always fair. If you're working more and you're doing more the work, then you know, maybe 7030 is fair. Maybe 8020, what I mean, there are a lot of partnerships out there where someone brings all the money and then it's 5050, you know, it just, it just depends. It's what's fair. Is whatever all parties agree to. That's what's fair. And a lot of people don't think about exits they're so excited to get the property and, you know, get it under contract and start managing that thing and start, you know, that first step towards financial freedom, or thinking about all the mailbox money they're going to get. And they don't think about exit strategy like I always say, Never get into investment until you already know your exit strategy coming in. And with a partnership, that exit strategy has to be in the contract, and then the capital calls, what if something bad happens? You have to put that in the contract. How you're going to handle that? If it's a fire, if it's a lawsuit, it could simply be someone fell down the steps and you're getting sued. What happens then? You know, that kind of stuff, and they partner with unaccountable friends. So just because you went to grade school with somebody and used to eat chicken at their house on Sundays doesn't mean that they're a good person to partner with. So you might find that a perfect stranger might be better to partner with than friends. It's hard to be in business with friends. It kills a lot of friendships.

Unknown Speaker  24:32
So write everything down.

Speaker 1  24:35
Set the roles based on the skills and the amount of money that they have. You know, if someone's bringing all the money they shouldn't be managing to you have to make it fair, as fair as you can somehow communicate consistently, which means like, let them see the bank statements so they know how much is coming in. Let them see the management software so they know who, who's renting what and how much they're paying. Um, how long the leases are? That kind of stuff like full transparency and and good communication will save you a lot of headache. And then always, always, always review with a an accountant or an attorney at least once a year, make sure everything's good. Your accountant, obviously you're there. You're going to review it with them once a year, because they're going to do your taxes anyway. So anyway, so they're going to go over everything. And you know, maybe they can tell you, Well, this is the year to refinance, and your contract says this about when it's time to refinance, and who decides and how much and all that kind of stuff. Okay, so remember, this clarity creates wealth. That's the main thing. You know. You your contract can't be too big and well defined. It's impossible. The more you can put in there, the better the better defined things are, the less conflict there will be. It might make things a little slower and a little cumbersome to operate at times, but it'll it'll keep you safe. Think that's, well, that's it. But I'm going to put this in the community docs, just so you guys have it this little simple sample here. But I mean, it's, it's as easy as just saying, Well, this name is going to be this kind of partner, and we're it's going to be this split create a contract that works. Bam, chat. GBT, love it.

Unknown Speaker  26:26
Does anybody have any questions on that?

Speaker 2  26:36
Is there a good spot to find the equity partner if you want to be the slot equity person, like, is there a hub of some kind

Speaker 1  26:45
real estate meetups? That's a that's a good way, like, if you just Google local real estate meetups and try to find the Facebook groups and the groups, and the best thing you could do is find the property. First you you start meeting people, you find a property, and then you present it to them. I haven't seen anybody be successful without a deal in their back pocket. You know, maybe you know an off market deal that nobody knows about. You feel like you can get it off market a lot cheaper, and you know the area, you know the owner. You know all this, but you just don't have the capital. When you start meeting people and you, you know, they've been investing, and you bring them a deal that's different. You're not just because otherwise it kind of seems like maybe, you know, maybe you're begging or whatever, but at least if you come with a deal, you've already done the work. You know, finding a good deal is very difficult. I mean, we know from buying businesses, right? It's a lot of work, and people drive for for dollars all the time trying to find those properties that could be wholesaled or whatever. So, yeah, real estate meetup, you might be able to find somebody on, you know, one of the sites I don't know. I think that'd be a little difficult, though. I don't I like to meet people face to face and get a read on them. Personally, I don't think I would want to do that with somebody I didn't know at all and hadn't actually met in person.

Speaker 3  28:19
Hey, Shane, I would agree with you, as I've tried to look for equity partners like I face to face is always best. There's a lot of scammers out there, or people who say they say one thing, and they really don't. But I just to answer the question on like, where to find them. I'm not advocating for this company whatsoever, and some people think they have a really bad rep, but new Western typically does, like investor meetups in the areas that they're in, and I've made some really good relationships with people at those meetups, so that could be an avenue for someone to start looking at, okay, new Western is what it's called, yeah, new Western is a company. They are basically commercial wholesaler and but they have, they often do, like, investor meetups in the areas that they have offices and so, you know, they do them, like quarterly or monthly.

Speaker 1  29:23
Okay, another good way, too, is a really good real estate agent can bring all kinds of good contacts with them. You know, they'll know the good contractors. They know the owners. They know people who put a lot of money into real estate. They know the property managers, you name it, so you know when, when you should be interviewing your investor agents. They should have, they should have done many, many, many investment sales over the, you know, the last 1020, years, however long they've been doing it. I. Really, they've got have investment properties of their own, or they have a property management company or whatever. But that, that's, that's another person, another part of your team, that is invaluable to bring you deals and to bring you partnerships and just to keep you from making a bad deal.

Speaker 4  30:25
Hey, Shane, so in the resource bundle, there's, like the 67 page single member operating agreement, and then like the 100 page multi member operating agreement. Is the doc you showed here. Is that meant to replace it? Or is like,

Speaker 1  30:40
it's just another real estate specific, yeah, this is I just, I just did this for the purpose of tonight, just so you can kind of see, like a basic like this should not be less than this if you're getting into a partnership on investment property. And it's, this is pretty sparse already. There's a there's quite a bit of meat missing from this. But I just wanted to put this out there so that in the you know, maybe you're rushed into it or whatever, but, like, you can still figure it out and still get a contract, like just, just don't make a handshake deal kind of thing. So no, this is not necessarily a replacement for it's just an alternate, like an alternative, if you want something simpler. Got you okay? And this is specifically for real estate, too. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  31:39
Anybody else, any questions? Partnerships.

Unknown Speaker  31:42
I just have a comment. I was,

Speaker 4  31:47
yeah, this, I mean, this applies, obviously, for more than just real estate, but for, you know, business partnerships as well. And yeah, I went through this whole process with my current business, and 100% agree with with all your advice and just get things, you know, put in, put in writing before, you know, before it gets started, instead of doing it later. And then, you know, people getting upset, things being unfair. And then, you know, a really good thing is, like a tie breaker. I think you mentioned that too, like somebody, if you can't agree, you know, some mutual party, like an accountant or something like that, or attorney that can break the tie for decisions that just can't be made,

Speaker 1  32:32
yeah, arbitrage or whatever, like you can even put a coin flip in there. I don't know. I don't know something. Otherwise nothing's gonna happen. They say no, you say yes, and you're stuck.

Speaker 3  32:48
Yep. Shane, I do have a question about the credit partner, and like, how does that work with like, getting financing, so if they're say there's three members and all your names are on the documents. When the credit partner goes to get the loan, they're getting it, they're basically just guaranteeing that they're using their personal credit to guarantee the loan for the LLC,

Speaker 1  33:14
yeah, yeah. Basically So, and how you do that to where it's it's still fair is that, you know, everybody's name goes on the deed, you know, while you're in that transitionary period before you move it to an LLC, so you're going to secure the loan. It's going to be all your documents and financials and everything the down payment, though, has to be in your bank account. So it can't be, you know, and someone else can't just wire the money there. It's, if you're securing the loan, you have to have that money in the bank. And then, so the loan is in your name, the deed becomes in all the partners names, and then everything is transferred over to loc for usually, it's called a quit claim deed, and it's moved over to LLC,

Unknown Speaker  34:08
okay? And that doesn't

Speaker 3  34:12
like, I guess that doesn't like, make the loan, get called early or anything.

Speaker 1  34:18
No, I have not. I've done it many times. It's never happened to me. I don't know of anybody that it has happened to. The times that it would happen is if you got a low interest rate on that initial loan, and now rates are much higher, and you transfer it, and they know that they might make you refinance at the higher rate so they can make more money. But if you if the rates are about the same or they're lower, they just want their money. They're not going to now, you can also find banks that just are okay with it. You know, you don't have to be take that risk. The bank that I use now, they don't care. They're like, yeah, most of. Of people do this. You know, that's kind of the way investment properties work now, because you put it into an LLC, even if it's not going to be a partnership, you put it there for to limit your liability. So, you know, especially like short term rentals, especially you have so many people going in and out of the properties, and there's just such potential for someone to get hurt or whatever, and then they sue you, and you want that barrier between that asset and your personal assets?

Speaker 3  35:27
Yeah, so no, totally makes sense. And then the only thing the second question follow up for that is, in your experience, do you think, do you find that, like larger banks or slash online banks, better to deal with for is, like not calling the note versus like a small credit union or home, like local bank.

Speaker 1  35:50
Well, I mean, I haven't, like I said, I haven't, I don't know of anyone that that's actually happened to

Unknown Speaker  35:58
in this environment,

Speaker 1  36:00
so I don't know if they're better or worse about it, like a lot of times I was using brokers. So, you know, a broker, you don't know where you're actually getting the money from. You go through the broker, and then you get approved, and then you go underwriting and all this stuff, and then the money shows up. Then they take that and they sell it to somebody. That mortgage is then sold to some, some other company that does the servicing and handles it. And you don't know what their terms are going to be, too. And that's you know. You'll never even see those people or know anything about them. They'll just, you'll get an email that says, hey, you pay us now, you know, we bought this and start paying us. So I don't know, I don't know which one would be better or worse. I mean, probably better for if there's a local person that you can just talk to, and you know, because somebody is going to make that decision if it's if it comes up and it's fishy, but as long as the ownership structure is the same, like, whatever's on your deed, if, if, if that's the same as what's going on your you know, partnership agreement as the for the ownership or the LLC or whatever, as long as that's the same, and the mortgage keeps getting paid and you have insurance on it, should be fine,

Unknown Speaker  37:18
yeah? Okay. I mean, that's fair, yeah?

Speaker 3  37:19
When I think about, like, my loan to my rental properties, they've all been sold and, like, they probably could care less. They just want their money auto drafted.

Speaker 1  37:30
So yep, absolutely, yeah. And I think maybe in the 80s, that due on sale clause was happening when interest rate skyrocketed. But I like, I don't know anybody that's that it's happened to, and if it well. And I actually, I heard on a podcast. I heard somebody was on the real estate rookie podcast. They were talking about it, but they actually were trying to, like, do this weird sale thing where they were moving into an LLC, and they had no ownership in that LLC at all. That's a different situation, because when they look into that more deeply, you've actually sold that. You know, if you're not still an owner, you you sold that to somebody else. That's different. You Yeah, because you're not changing the loan and who pays for the loan, you're still personally guaranteeing that loan. So there's a lot of risk that comes with being that, taking on that credit role partner.

Speaker 5  38:39
Great question. So I Okay.
