Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. This is the mentorship portion. It's Thursday, August, 21 2025 just to give you an update on my latest acquisition. So finally, we got all of the inventory inventoried. We get all the numbers to where I was able to purchase a portion of the inventory. I have the you know. So the deal we made was I buy a portion of the inventory. The old owner has to take his portion of the inventory and vacate, because we had a lot of issues. There was a lot of underhanded things going on. I pretty much misjudged this, this owner, thinking that they were honest, kind of sweet old guy, and no, not at all. So we have pivoted, but we're back to where we started, which is the end goal, was to get this entire building, which is 10,000 square feet, and be able to have the full auto repair shop in there. We're going to liquidate the parts that the inventory that I did buy on eBay, and then we're going to expand the auto repair shop into the other portion. So that's the original plan. We're able to actually make that work, but it's been a struggle. Like, you know, I said five weeks, we're going on two months, and it's just now to a point where I don't have to be there, and that was solely, solely because of the old owner completely standing in the way of every single thing that we try to do. So but it's, you know, you see it through. You solve problems. That's what we do as entrepreneurs. Problems come up when we solve them. One of the things that I think I neglected to say in the last video was, I think I said, in the first week, you don't want to change anything, right? You don't want to make any drastic changes. The reason why you bought a business that was established was because it already works. Okay? So you don't want to come in and change the name, you don't want to change all the things that are good about that business. And I just recently saw a big corporate company, which was like, they have, I think, like 20 auto repair shops. They bought a locally owned auto repair shop that had a well established name. They changed it to their corporate name immediately. Day one, they put up the new sign, and they, let's see, fast forward like I think it was 60 days later, they took down that sign that they probably paid 20, $25,000 for the sign, and put up a brand new version of the old sign that was there, even though they still own it, because everyone stopped going there. So that's why I say you don't change everything across the board. And they made that huge mistake. But I want to tell you guys that story before we get started, and just let you know that everything's going good in this one, but it has been the hardest acquisition that I've ever done by far. But because the business was solid, because the numbers were good, it's worked out. It's just been it's been a nightmare, it's been a headache, but it is actually doing really well now, and I have a great manager at the end of the day. So yeah, so that's why I've been a little bit out of the loop the last couple weeks, and I'm sorry if I've missed a couple of messages and stuff. So what do you guys get going on? What's anybody have a business that they've been looking at? I know last week we had some landscaping in what was it Florida? I think that looked pretty good. I

Speaker 2  04:04
Hey, I um, I have something that I've been looking at this week, but you kind of just answered all of my doubts.

Unknown Speaker  04:14
Okay, can you, can you tell us a little bit about it?

Speaker 2  04:16
Yeah, I'll, um, do you want me to post the link to it just

Speaker 1  04:21
okay in the comments and okay screen, and we'll look at it.

Unknown Speaker  04:29
Let's see the main issue is the

Speaker 2  04:37
owner told the manager that he was going to sell the business, and he completely spooked him and ran him off. And so I just found that out that they are no longer there, so the owner is back, owner, operator. Later, which you just answer that, and I'm like, Uh, okay, yeah, that's definitely not gonna work for me anyway, yeah, trying to find someone. So that's what I've been trying to figure out this week, is like, How can I structure it to where I could find someone to split that responsibility with me, but yeah, I don't know it's, it's not a it's a unique business to begin with that I was just not crazy about. But the numbers are really good, and it's a really well known

Unknown Speaker  05:38
business, like in our area. Okay?

Speaker 1  05:43
So have you talked to the owner since they spilled the beans?

Speaker 2  05:48
Not yet. I've just been in contact with the broker. She's pretty much, I think, called me two or three times this week. I've talked to her.

Speaker 1  05:57
So you've never, have you met the the manager?

Unknown Speaker  06:00
Never met, no,

Speaker 1  06:03
yeah, I would be a little spooked about this one. Yeah, you know, why would they ever I mean, maybe they're friends with the GM and thought that maybe

Speaker 2  06:18
from what, from what I'm understanding from the broker, it sounded like they told a guy, like, Hey, we're going to be selling a business, and it's likely going to be an owner operator. Like, I don't know why. They just assumed that. And so like, whenever we like, it's going to be coming for sale. So if you want to start looking for something else, like, something else, like they pretty much like, let him go, like, it sounds like just an idiot, if you ask me,

Unknown Speaker  06:49
yeah, yeah, it does. It's

Speaker 2  06:51
like they are very still, like pen and paper, like old school people. And I think that they just made a terrible mistake doing that, and now they're stuck with it, and they're dropping the price and all this, you know, because when I originally talked to the broker, like a month or so ago, the guy was still there, but they wanted, I thought they wanted too much for the business. It was like $100,000 more than what it is, right? It is right now. And I was like, oh, yeah, that's kind of high. And so she reached back out to me, and she was like, hey, the the price dropped $100,000 are you still interested? And I was like, Sure, give me a call within that's whenever she just told me that the director left. I hmm, yeah.

Speaker 1  07:43
I mean, the numbers look great, but you got to think too, these are numbers with that old GM, right?

Speaker 2  07:51
Well, no, so I asked all that too, so it's actually okay there. Let me look at the listing. Okay, so the cash flow is actually $30,000 more than what is listed is like 280 something. They took $30,000 off of that to represent the wife's salary, because the wife is the doing the bookkeeping. So from that 250 they were paying that GM 70 of the 250 so, like, the numbers are there to hire somebody, but it's like, I don't know like,

Speaker 1  08:37
so they were paying, so when you say they were paying the the GM, 70 of that 250 it really with the GM there, yes, okay, yeah, no, I would be, I would be a hard pass on this one. Yeah, if the owner is an idiot, you don't want to have to deal with dumb ass owner. That's yeah, that if he already told the manager, if you actually inked a deal where, okay, we're gonna, we're gonna close on this day. Who knows? He's probably gonna go blab to every employee there, and you might show up and not have a single employee left.

Speaker 2  09:17
Yeah, and there are 16 employees. So I'm like, Yeah, I

Speaker 1  09:20
would be, I would be too scared to do that, because during the transition, you're basically partnered with them, and if, if they're not, if they're not on the same page as you, it's not gonna work. It's gonna be, it's gonna be a disaster.

Speaker 2  09:36
Yeah, okay, yeah. That was, that was what my gut was telling me. It was like, run like, this is not sound. No.

Speaker 1  09:42
If this was something where you wanted to come in, you mainly, you know, you wanted to turn like it was a business that was not doing well. Maybe you wanted to flip it, or you were going to be an owner operator and like, that was your plan. And you're really, really well versed in this. You. Sector, you know, like, you know exactly how this stuff works. That's a different story. But like to come into it cold. You need those employees. You need that old owner to transition. And if you can't really old owner and the employees, it's gonna be rough. I wouldn't do it okay.

Unknown Speaker  10:19
But I mean, at first glance, it looks like

Speaker 2  10:23
I know, and so the only so they've been, I think, since 2010 and I mean, their numbers are steady, like they're consistently at, like, 1.6 million in sales, 1.5 million. Like, the only year that they struggled with covid, of course, but they still made a profit that year, so even with the schools shut down and all that. So I was like, Well, I mean, I don't understand the business, like, this is never be something that I would pick. But I was like, Man, these numbers just look really good.

Speaker 1  10:58
So what do they do? That's

Speaker 2  11:01
they, they do fundraisers for all of the schools in Louisiana, and it's a very popular thing, like people, they sell, like, mattresses, sheets, pillows. And they'll go to like the high school, like the band or whatever, and they'll, they organize these fun, these one day fundraisers, and the family and friends or whatever will come out and buy mattresses. And then they get a school gets a percentage, and then they get a percentage, wow. And then they have, like, a warehouse where they just receive the orders and then deliver them. So that's like the all their employees are contractors, but they've been there for years, like most of them have been there over five years, and it's like a second job for them, because they won't. They mainly run these fundraisers on Saturday and Sundays.

Speaker 1  12:02
This is kind of another red flag too, if for what you would want to do is they even label it as ideal for an owner operator.

Speaker 2  12:10
Yeah, like they just expected, like I'm telling from the way the broker like her, the way she was explaining it to me, like they just expect an owner operator to run it. And I was like, But why, whenever he wasn't doing that, like he wasn't running it, like he had a manager running it for him? Like, why would he expect? I don't know.

Speaker 1  12:33
Strange, yeah, yeah, I, I would just cross this off the list if it

Speaker 2  12:42
were me. Okay, yes, that's, that's what my gut was saying,

Unknown Speaker  12:48
especially if they, if they lower it $100,000

Speaker 1  12:51
a lot of people think, Oh, that's great. That's great, unless there's an illness, you know, where the person just can't do it, you know, if it's for anything other than than that is no, it's, it's something, not something you want to be involved in. It's a,

Unknown Speaker  13:09
I don't know. It's the Hindenburg.

Speaker 2  13:11
It's going so the I do know that the broker did tell me that that the husband like so, whenever he hired or whatever. Whenever he had the manager in place running it for him, that he went and got another job, and so right now he's having to take a leave from his job to run this business until he sells it. Wow. So that's, I think, part of the urgency, which it's like, why did you tell the manager anything you wouldn't be in this situation?

Unknown Speaker  13:45
Yeah, you can't think, yeah.

Speaker 1  13:49
I mean, you think that cash flow is enough where you wouldn't have to get another job too?

Speaker 2  13:55
Yeah, I don't know, but the wife was, like, completely shutting it down. And, yeah, she's, she's done which, this is her business. So I don't even understand, like, why he was the main one running it, but that's how they had it structured. But anyway, yes, thank you, and I will be crossing this one off.

Unknown Speaker  14:20
Yeah, yeah, no problem.

Unknown Speaker  14:24
That's a bummer. What

Unknown Speaker  14:32
about anybody else? Anybody got a

Speaker 1  14:36
Gina you want to talk about your advertising opportunity?

Unknown Speaker  14:40
I I can

Speaker 3  14:45
today, I got a phone call from a, I guess, a local TV station in North Alabama. And I guess it wasn't this station. It was actually this show that the. It does a show on their station, and they asked if I wanted to advertise my business on their show that they had found my my business on Facebook, and they liked the name of it, and this is a southern gospel TV show, and anyways, they presented me an offer to run ads and have like 100,000 people see my advertisement for like 135 a month, okay? And we've talked back and forth about it all afternoon, and he said, you know, just pray about it, and if it's God's will for us to do business together, then it will happen. I and I've got a question for Joseph about that.

Unknown Speaker  16:09
Apollo AI, I was wondering if

Unknown Speaker  16:17
can you use it for different

Speaker 3  16:23
uh, clients. Can you use it for? Is it just structured for just one client, or can you use it to send out mailings for different clients?

Unknown Speaker  16:39
And Joe? You listening?

Speaker 4  16:40
Think he's asleep tonight.

Unknown Speaker  16:46
He might be, might be, I don't know that

Speaker 1  16:49
might be something that you could reach out in the community and ask him, yeah. I might put a post on there and see it, and he might be able to answer that for you, yeah, because I've

Unknown Speaker  17:01
been looking at the milk jump and

Speaker 3  17:05
different ones, because I've got another client that they do twice a year. They do some consignment for kids shopping, and that dad actually reached out to me to help his daughter, you know, scale some new clients for their business.

Speaker 1  17:31
So I've not had much luck with MailChimp. I use it's called clavio, K, L, A, V, i, y, O, yes, yes, it's one of the older ones. But it's really easy to use. They don't have a lot of the restrictions. So the problem is, you don't, I think a lot of them probably end up in the spam folder, but it's, I don't know. It's a good place to start. You can get a free account and send out. I think it's, you can have upwards of, like 250 email addresses for the free one, and after that, you have to pay by the number of addresses that you're sending emails to. And then. But it's, it's very affordable. It's not, it's a pretty good one, yeah, clavio, because I a couple of times I got some MailChimp campaigns built, and at the last moment, it's like, oh no, you can't do this. It didn't meet our standards. After it let you do it for like, two or three hours setting it up.

Unknown Speaker  18:35
So I didn't like that very much.

Speaker 3  18:37
Yeah, I wouldn't either. Yeah, my brother's marrying a lady that has a business that's on the MailChimp. They have problems with it all the time. So I want to find a better a better marketing tool so that I can

Unknown Speaker  19:00
get their business as well. Sure.

Speaker 1  19:06
Yeah, Klaviyo, definitely worth looking into.

Unknown Speaker  19:18
Anybody else got any questions?

Unknown Speaker  19:27
No, okay.
