Speaker 1  00:02
Everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday, November 6, 2025 tonight. Kind of, what I wanted to go over was a little bit of refinancing. I'm in the midst of refinancing a four Plex. And I know there's a lot of misconceptions about that. Last week we talked about, you know, using leverage and using debt, good debt the right way to increase your net worth and to gain wealth. Kind of, you know, how the wealthy view leverage? And, you know, debt as leverage, and poor people and middle class tend to view it as always a bad thing, no matter what. So I thought we could get into the nitty gritty of refinancing and what it means when it's useful, and how powerful it can be. So let me share my screen. Okay? So essentially, you refinance for a few different reasons, right? You You have equity in your home, hopefully, or equity in a investment property or whatever, you know, and you may have debt that's really high interest debt, you know, if you financed, you got a mortgage within the last two, three years, you know, after it came back up, after the pandemic, you might have an interest rate in the sevens, the sixes, you know, you might have an investment property that's, you know, well into the eights. The one that I'm currently refining financing was 8.125 I bought that pretty much at the height of interest rates because it was still a good deal. You know, because interest rate is really irrelevant, it's about the cash flow of your investment more than anything. So as long as it covers the Debt and Cash Flows, it's still a good deal. And I knew at the time that that was going to be a really high interest rate, but part of the plan was, in a couple of years, hopefully refinance it at a much lower rate, I could pull money out if I wanted to. There's a lot of different things you can do when you refinance, but just be able to, you know, lower that payment, increase your cash flow, and that's kind of a long term strategy. So the power of refinancing is your turn. You're able to turn your equity, which would otherwise just be sitting in your home, into an asset that can bring you more wealth. A lot of people will pay on their mortgage and pay on their mortgage and pay on their mortgage, get equity and do nothing with it. And it's just, it's just like, you know, putting money under your mattress and never investing it and never doing anything with it. It's the same thing. It's a wasted opportunity. But people, it's a safety net too. I understand that people, you know, you get out from under a mortgage or a big mortgage, it's a it's a very freeing feeling to not have that debt hanging over your head, but at the same time, it can be a missed opportunity. So I just kind of wanted to talk about how you can turn that equity into leverage, that can, you know, change your future for good. So what matters is that you know, when refinancing makes sense, that you can use equity to acquire more assets, and that you shift your mindset from, you know, that debt freedom mindset to leverage mindset. So you think that, well, I want to be debt free. That's that's the key. But you're not going to find other than Dave Ramsey. You're not going to find wealthy people that are truly debt free. They they use debt in the right way. So let's talk about two different homeowners and how they view their debt and what they do. So Person A say, they they pay off their mortgage, they they build $150,000 in equity, and it just sits there. They never do anything with it. Person B refinances somewhere in there, somewhere in the middle, and pulls out 100,000 and they buy a new property that brings them back 1200 per month. So Person A right there, they paid off their home early, so they don't have that mortgage, but Person B will still pay off their home in a in a relatively short amount of time, but they have an asset that is also building equity, and it's also cash flowing that they can then refinance and turn into another one and turn into another one and turn into another one. You another one. You can scale real estate that way. You can scale real estate by refinancing into a business down payment. There's so many things you can do. Got to put that money to work. So how does a refinance work? It's basically you're getting a separate mortgage on the same property that you already own. So they're going to take that new loan, they're going to pay off the old one, and then put the new loan in place at whatever the terms are. So the the terms that matter are LTV, which is the amount of the loan, or the amount of that the loan to the value of the home. There's debt to income, which is the amount of. Debt you have total compared to the income that you bring in. And that's that's monthly and yearly. And then you have equity, which is the value of your home minus the loan balance. That difference is your equity. So if you have a home that's worth 200,000 you owe 100,000 on it. You have 100,000 in equity. And then your appraisal is what it will appraise at. Even if, if your loans for 200,000 and you have 100,000 in it, it might appraise for 300,000 so that's a completely different thing than what the value of the home is on the loan and seasoning is sometimes you have to, you have to wait a certain amount of time after you get a mortgage before you can refinance. You might have a seasoning period of six months, a year, two years, something like that, before you can even do it. So the most common refinances is a rate and term. So you're just going to replace your existing mortgage with one that has a different interest rate, maybe a lower loan term you want. You might refinance a 30 into a 15 with a lower interest rate, but the same payment. You just want to pay it off early. A lot of people do that. Or you might want the same term, but just a much lower rate, so you get a less of a down payment. But this is when you don't take any cash out. This is just a standard refinance to get a lower payment generally. So you might want to like, like, in the situation that I'm doing, I'm I'm at an 8.125 I'm refinancing into a 6.5 that's a pretty good savings. That's a save. It's going to be a savings of about $450 a month in the payment. I'm not planning on taking any money out. I just want to keep that building. But just have, you know, less expenses. And if the interest rates keep going any lower, if they go to, like, another percent down, another percent and a half down from where I'm at right now, and I can get more of a like a five, and I'll refinance again. It just you have to figure out if the numbers work. And we'll talk about that. You can also, you know, switch to an arm, which is an adjustable rate mortgage, which means that you have a window of a certain like so many years, where it's a fixed rate, but then after that, it's going to adjust so much a year, up or down depending on what the market rate is. So it's a little bit riskier, but it comes generally a lot cheaper to begin with. I think so I already gave you an example, so it just, it just shortening your payoff time, or shortening your monthly payment generally. What this is for. The drawback is you don't get any cash out of it in order to buy another asset. You know, it's just strictly reducing your, you know your leverage costs, so a cash out refinance, on the other hand, is similar, but what you're going to do is you're going to pull out some of your equity, or maybe it appraised higher, and you're going to pull out a piece of the loan. So let's think about this. So you want to use the equity in your current house to buy another property or fund a business. Or maybe you have a bunch of credit cards with high interest debt you want to pay it off, so you need some cash so, or maybe you're going to do the birth strategy, where you increase, you artificially increase the value of the home by renovating so that you know it's worth more. And then you can pull some cash out. Use that cash to buy another property. You just keep rolling it, rolling it. So go through an example. Here say your house is worth 300,000 you owe 200,000 what would your equity be on there? You would consider that to be 100,000 in equity. Well, at 75,000 or excuse me, 75% loan to value, that means that you could write refinance through most banks. Most banks want 75 to 80% LTV, you could refinance for 225 and pull 25,000 out and use that to pay off your credit cards. Use that to, you know, fund a down payment on another, to do renovations to, you know, there's a lot of things that you can who wouldn't want $25,000 in cash. It's nice. The benefits is it unlocks the equity for reinvestment. And I'll talk about why that reinvestment can be even better than paying off your mortgage here in a second. The key drawback is it's going to increase your debt balance. So up above, right here, you know you had you only owed 200,000 you're going to refinance. You're going to owe 225 but you have $25,000 in liquid cash that you can use to make more money. Okay, and then there's, I went ahead and included. This is not something that a lot of people do. I have not done it either, but if you have multiple properties, you can actually refinance them as a group, and sometimes you can take advantage by refinancing as a group to get a lower rate because it's a higher loan value. The drawbacks mainly are that when you go to you say you just wanted to sell one property, you can't just sell one you have to refine. Cent, pull one out of that loan, then sell one. So you're kind of, you're locked into that portfolio situation. So you have to have a big institutional buyer or somebody who's willing to take your whole portfolio if you do that, but it can save you a lot of money and simplify your your your tax strategy, your bookkeeping and all that stuff. So let's talk about when it makes sense to refinance. So say your original loan was 200,000 your balance is 140,000 and your value is Now, because of appreciation, 300,000 so what you have is you have 160,000 in equity. So you can potentially get a $225,000 loan, 85k cash out, which we know from from all the stuff that we've talked about. If you have $85,000 in cash, you can buy a large business that can change your life, and you've done nothing other than pay off your mortgage for the last 10 years, and wait, and you know, property values have appreciated that's that's when this, this really matters for the cash out refinance, when you can get substantial money out or you can buy an asset that can change your life, that's when it's great. Now, we talked a lot about a HELOC in the past. You know, you can use HELOC for a down payment on a business. It's perfectly acceptable to the SBA, but you only generally want to use HELOC when interest rates are high or rising, because you want to keep your rate on your house locked in so you're going to get a HELOC and keep your original loan structure in place, and then be able to use that HELOC to do what you want to do. But when it's coming down, it makes more sense to refinance at a lower rate. So because it's trending downward, it's going to save you in costs. So you know, we know what we can do with the funds. You can buy more rentals. You can fund rehabs on your existing properties or on your primary home to make it worth more money, you can expand a business, you can buy a business, you can pay off high interest loans. What you don't want to do is get $85,000 out and then go on vacations and, you know, buy a brand new car, and it just doesn't make sense. Then the only time it makes sense is if you're going to put it towards something that's going to bring back more money, you know, if you want to put it towards something that brings you more money, and then use that money that profit to buy fun stuff and go on vacations. That makes more sense, right? Because you're not coming out of pocket for that. You're not using your own funds. But good debt multiplies income. Bad Debt drains it. You know, they always say in real estate, you can't time. It's not timing the market. It's time in the market. I get that, but there are good times for refinances and there are not good times. You only want to do it when the interest rates are falling, like this whole year. I think for the last six months, they have consistently been ticking down. Tick, tick, tick, tick, they went down. I think was it last week? Another little bit. It's pretty consistent. Now I don't know how low they're going to keep going. You're rolling the dice. When you decide to refinance, you're saying, Okay, well, do I want to do it now? Has it hit the low? Is it good enough? Kind of a good rule of thumb is, if you can get 1.25% lower, it's generally a good idea to refinance, because then the juice is worth the squeeze, because your your costs of the loan, which you're like, your refinance cost could be anywhere from two to, like, four or $5,000 but if you're saving Five $600 a month in payments. It doesn't take long for you to pay that back and make it worthwhile. So in my situation, it's, I think it's, it's, we'll just call it 500 a month less, and it's costing me about 3500 to refinance. So, you know, in less than six months, you know, I'm pretty much paid that back, and it's and it's well worth it. So if you are, if you have high property values, you know you might want to pull equity out. If you're in a in a neighborhood that has really on trending up and the property values are going up, and it's a good opportunity if rates are going up, though, you don't want to refinance. You want to use a HELOC, and the principle and the whole like, if you take nothing away from this other than this, one thing is just, don't let your equity sit there and do nothing if you have substantial equity, it's a lost opportunity. It's a missed opportunity to do the things that we're trying to do and trying to level up in our personal lives and our get financial freedom. Just don't miss out on that opportunity. Okay, so what about paying off early every single, basically every single mortgage application that you see on. As far as, like, when you're paying, you know you pay online, or you put it on auto pay, or whatever they have a button, or you can pay more towards the payment, and it'll pay down your principal. And it seems like it's a good idea, because you can pay maybe an extra 100, $200 a month, and they'll even show you the numbers over the lifetime of that loan, the 30 years of that loan, you might save yourself 75,000 $100,000 in interest, you know, just lost, lost money that you're just throwing away and giving to the bank. And that seems like a good deal, and it is if, if you don't know the other options that are available, but say you're paying an extra three, or let's call it 400 a month, you know, and you might do that for 10 years. So that's what, that's about 5000 a year, $50,000 total, that you're going to put in there. What if instead, you save that money and you put it in a high interest savings account that's going to bring you about, you know, three and a half to 4.25% you're already, I should have put the numbers on here, but you're already going to earn more just doing that than you would by paying down, paying off your mortgage early, paying additional onto your principal. It's fairly close, but you end up doing better on high interest savings account. But you can, even better, what you can do is you can use that for a down payment on an assets is going to return more like 10, 15% 25 or a business where you can get upwards of, you know, 100% ROI, 300% ROI, then it doesn't even, it's not even a competition anymore. You know, it's all about having liquid funds to be able to buy assets. So don't let the mortgage companies fool you into thinking like, Hey, if you put more, you know, more towards your principal, that it's really the best option, option for you. It's not. It's better than just, you know, paying the minimum for 30 years, sure, but it's not always the you know, it's not the best option. Okay, we've talked about burrs before, but burr is based on the refinance without a refinance and cash out refinance. Burr does not work because it's the repeat at the end that last R is repeat. And if you know, if you weren't here for that class or haven't seen that video, you know it's, it's buy, rehab, rent, refinance, repeat. So you're going to buy a property that's kind of downtrodden, you're going to rehab it, you're going to put a renter in there for higher than you could have gotten before. You're going to get it appraised at a higher value, because you forced equity. You are you forced appreciation, excuse me. And then you're going to refinance that thing at the new level, pull some money out, use that as a down payment to buy the next one. So you just keep, you know, you put a down payment on the first one. You're able to pull it out on the second towards the second one. And over and over and over, you taking the same money as the same down payment and just moving. And if you do it right, and you do it in an environment where it's easier to easy to sell those homes, and you can end up with five to 10 homes where you use the same down payment to do all of them. That's kind of that's the birth strategy, but it only works with a good refinance. That's the infinite return model, just over and over and over and over. So the key metrics to watch if you're thinking about refinancing, number one is loan to value. Banks want your your LTV, to be 80% or less. They don't want to give you more than that. That's what, especially on investment property, which, if you think about on the flip side of that, that means you have to have, if you're buying one, you have to have a 20% down payment, a 25% down payment on investment property. It's the same thing. It's thinking in the bank's terms on that loan to value. The lower your LTV, the more cushion you have, and the safer the investment for the bank. The higher your LTV, the more risky, and the more leverage you're taking on. So just be careful if it gets upwards of 85% or 80% 85 you're in danger zone right there. And your DSCR is your debt service coverage ratio. We talk about it all the time. It's your net operating income divided by the total debt service, which is all the principal and all the interest you pay for the whole year. You want that to be 1.25 or or better. If it's exactly one, that means that the money you pull in from your investment exactly pays for the debt. And you don't want that. You're just breaking even. You're taking all this risk to break even. And you want to get some sort of cash flow. You want it to at least be at 1.25 and they're going to want you to be positive monthly cash flow for a refi. Banks are just not going to do it. And then the break even on Close. Closing costs, like I just talked about. So you might have to pay two to $6,000 in closing costs if you're saving a certain amount of money every single month. Say you're saving $500 a month. You know, that's 6000 a year, if it, if it took, if it costs 6000 to refinance, and you know, after a year you've paid that back, is it worth it? You just have to, have to ask yourself that I if it's going to take over a year to pay it back, I don't think it's worth it. That's why I say it's, you know, you need to get one and a quarter 1.5% interest rate reduction. Otherwise it doesn't. It's not worth it. So it's about that mindset, mind shift, mindset shift between being scared of debt and using debt as leverage. You know, wealthy people seek control over assets, not necessarily full ownership. It feels good to say my house is paid off, and I don't have to worry about it, but it feels a lot better to say my house financed these three businesses, and now I can buy two of those houses if I want to, with this cash flow. You know, that's it's just you have to reconfigure the way that your brain thinks about this stuff. And you know, you don't have to own everything, but you can. You can control a lot of things, and that's what the wealthy understand about this. Is, you know, they don't have to own 100% of anything, those mansions, those cars, those businesses, but they control them, and they can use them to buy more and more interest and control over more. So don't own the roof. Own the cash flow beneath it. That's the key. Okay, so we talked about the refinancing. So where you can take that money that you it's your money. If you've got equity in your home, just think about that as your money. Why should the bank hold that money when you can use that money to change your life. So that's your wealth multiplier. You can take that, you can put it, you can do burrs with it. You can do whatever with it, and you can take that next step in your financial freedom journey. You only refi when it improves cash flow, and run the numbers, not the emotions. So if the numbers work out, but it scares you to refinance. Just remember, you've, you've ran all these numbers, you know how much it's going to return. And don't let fear stop you from doing it. Okay, I get it. It's scary. You know you're gonna you've got 100,000 in equity, and you're thinking, Well, I can pull out $75,000 and buy a business, but should I or I could just sit here and stay comfortable and not do anything. It's up to you, but you have to make those decisions. So the goal isn't to pay off your house, it's to make your house pay for your freedom. Okay? So, yeah, that's it. I, I don't know I, I feel like I'm I've been saying the same things, maybe the last few weeks about leverage, because I get a lot of pushback, even from family and friends, like, you know, how much they'll say is, how much debt do you have? And I'm like, it doesn't matter how much debt I have. It matters how much cash flow I have per month. You know, if I'm not paying any of that debt off with my own money, and all the assets are paying, and people just can't make that shift. I don't know, some of it, I think, is generational, but I don't know they just, they just can't get past that. It scares them off.

Unknown Speaker  23:33
Does anybody have any questions?

Unknown Speaker  23:41
I have Shane, when you do refinance,

Speaker 2  23:46
in your case, does the amortization schedule resets to 30, like or 20, or you just pay the like remaining month left? I always wonder, like, do you have to start from zero. That's why you have, like, longer payments, or you can just continue, like, from your previous lender, and whether there's a lower rate, yeah. How does it work?

Speaker 1  24:09
Well, if you so, there's if you continue with your previous lender at a lower rate, that's a reconfigure or reset, that's not a refinance, and you can get a reset if you have, like, say, you got a large settlement or an inheritance or something like that, and you wanted to drop it on your your mortgage, then you can ask them for a reconfiguration or reset. And what they'll do is they'll put that equity in there, reconfigure what your remaining balance is and put it at a new rate. They'll do that just to hold on to you so you don't pay it off because they want the whole reason why. You know, banks, banks make the most money on you putting a minimum down payment and paying for 30 years. That's their bread and butter. They don't make any more money on any. Thing that they have other than that, that's like, that's where it's all at. As far as a refinance, though, you can refinance it at, you know, it's a completely different loan. So you get a new loan number, everything changes to that, to that new loan with a different company or with the same one, but it pays off your old loan, starts a new one, and whatever the terms you negotiate for the new one are what it is. So if you negotiate a 25 or a 20, or an arm or whatever, that's what it is. But generally you just keep the same term, like I'm going to keep a 30 year. That's why I like four Plex is because you can still get a residential loan. You don't have to do a commercial loan. So yeah, keeping all everything the same, and refinancing to get a lower payment, and then hopefully in a couple more years. Because so I bought this, I bought this four Plex in, what's it? Latin is 23 I bought this four Plex in 23 for three. I think it was 349 and it's going to appraise for about 410 just, just by sitting on it. And it's, you know, it's paid for itself this whole time. I haven't come out of pocket for anything. I could pull money. But I have a partner on this one, and he wants to wait one more cycle to before we pull money, because he's he's using it more for a tax strategy than anything else. So I was like, Okay, we'll just, we'll keep the equity in there this time, but next time I want to get it and use it to do something.

Unknown Speaker  26:37
Okay, thank you. Do

Unknown Speaker  26:45
anybody else? I always let people talk first, because I'm going to come in sometime.

Speaker 3  26:53
Okay, so, okay, so, um, so my question is, could this, I never talk about houses, but can we refinance our cars, or like, and make a little cash? Because right now, Joey of the past did a bad decision and bought two cars with the intention, with the intention to rent one out on Turo, which I did do, but the cars would always come back messed up. So I right now have a second car that just sits there. I'm paying 380 a month car payment on something that doesn't get used. And then I have my car that I use every day for Instacart, 340 a month or whatever. So like, I'm paying, okay, so like 340 plus, 380 $720 in car payments. So I've been paying these off, like three ish years, I don't know, maybe close to four. I've been getting some emails from Chase saying I have my business account with Chase, but getting these emails from Chase and, hey, refinance your car with us. Blah, blah, so I don't know. Do you think refinancing a car? I don't know. What's your opinion on refinancing both cars with Chase. I don't know if that would lower my credit score. I noticed my credit score is going up a little bit, but I was just curious, what do you think about you know, at least inquiring to chase about refinancing both cars, because if I can save another 300 bucks a month, that'd be awesome in some way or shape or form.

Speaker 1  28:27
Yeah, I Why not just sell the other car? How much

Unknown Speaker  28:30
I owe more than it's worth.

Speaker 3  28:33
That's that problem. And then the other problem was that, so I so the second car I have is like a 2012 Mercedes, and so that's the car doesn't get used. The last time I even looked at it, it was it must have had a leak or something in the sunroof or whatever, but the entire floor was just flooded. It didn't turn on, so I don't even know. So it's kind of trash, and one of the worst things I've ever done, but, um, but, yeah, so I don't know, I couldn't sell it, because I'd have to pay it off first and then sell it. So I can't get the title until it's paid off. There's probably close to eight or $9,000 still to pay off on it.

Speaker 1  29:20
Yeah, if you have a high, super high interest rate on it, you can refinance it, but you know, you have to pay the fees to refinance, and you just have to figure out if it's worth it. They're also going to want to push your time horizon on that. So how many years do you have left on it,

Speaker 3  29:36
as far as, like, how long it's gonna take for me to pay it off? Yeah, well, if it's 9000 is last, let's just say, and

Unknown Speaker  29:47
the term on your loan originally five year,

Speaker 3  29:52
I honestly don't even know, because that sounds not smart, no, as in the past, okay? So all I was thinking was, like, we're going to get this car. I'm going to rent this out. So when I did get it, though it was like $13,000 divide that by 380, a month, 34 months. So maybe divided by 12, so just three plus Yeah, and so yeah, five years. I guess that would turn out to be with the interest, probably like a 20% interest loan, maybe 23 not good.

Speaker 1  30:28
Yeah, that's pretty high. I mean, yeah, right, you can. You could definitely refinance to get your payment lower. I want to, I just, I would not want to be, you know, I wouldn't want to extend the years on that. You're already, it's already kind of a money pit. So, yeah, I know. I mean, I ideally, I would just try, I would try to sell it. You see, if I could sell it and get the getting it a personal loan at the same time to pay off the remainder, and then just be rid of the car, rid of the loan, and then just have that one personal loan that you could then pay off and just get out of it, but if, but if it's already trashed, you're not going to get anything out of it. It's not going to be worth doing. So you're just kind of stuck,

Speaker 3  31:11
I know. Yeah, so that's the issue. Is, like it didn't even turn on how they got I just didn't have the, I just don't have any time or money they want to put into it. It's like, it just sits there. It's like, I'm too busy already to deal with it.

Speaker 1  31:25
Yeah, but yeah, you can refinance. I actually, I have a friend that he just refinanced. He had, like, a 10% loan, 10% interest loan, and he refinanced to an eight and he kept the same term and everything. He didn't have to pay a lot of fees. They tried to get him to push it out. They're like, well, if you go out to seven years your payment, is it? You know, we cut your payment in half. But he didn't want that. He just wanted less payment and still pay it off in time. Yeah, he was able to do that, and he didn't have stellar credit either, really. Yeah, when he got the loan originally, it was a pretty high interest loan for, like, one of the first loans, he's a young guy,

Speaker 3  32:06
well, well, if hypothetically, I would hope, within seven years, I would buy a business so but, like, even just for right now, like, just to get a little bit more, like, I mean, don't be wrong, I can, I'm still making, like, at least $500 a month extra in savings if I work all the time. So it's not like I'm like, flat broke. So, I mean, I do have a little bit, but it's just like, if I could even save another $300 a month, if I could somehow refinance both. I mean, I don't care if it's a, I mean, I don't know if that's the right word to say, but if it's even, if it's a seven year loan, I could just get both my combined, my car lens down in half. I could save an extra 300 I mean, that would like, give me some wiggle room to at least, you know, give me some breathing space. So, but, but yeah, I mean, even if I stretched out the years, I wouldn't care, because I'm still hoping and thinking that okay. I do have plans to, I repeat, I paid off my credit card this week. That's kind of good thing. So I'm trying to rehab, rehab my credit score. And then I was thinking about also hiring a new credit repair person that said they could help out with the school loans I've been talking about forever and those late payments to happen back in April. So, I mean, um, so, I mean, I am moving forward with the credit score. I'm starting to get back into swing and things on that. So I paid off my paid off two grand on my credit card just this week. I got another 600 left, which I could pay off Sunday, so that'll be back down to zero, hopefully get my credit score going in the right direction, and then if I hire this credit repair people, they can work on my school loans. I'm still kind of pushing getting, you know, getting my inspiration back to work on that. But, but, yeah, I was just thinking if I can just get these car payments cut in half. I mean, even if I buy our business the next six months or whatever it takes for my credit score to go back up or, I mean, I know that sounds maybe too fast or whatever, but just anything would be awesome. So, I mean, I don't know if that was that would affect my credit score.

Speaker 1  34:13
Be careful about if you refinance those car loans. I would not want to go a longer term than you already have. Oh, because, because, yeah, you get your payment down, but how much do you end up paying together? Because that's it's going to keep depreciating those cars. You're already underwater on one car, and it's inevitable that eventually you'll get underwater on the other one, because it won't be worth as much as your loan was what's left on the loan. It's just so common with auto loans, yeah, so I wouldn't want to push it to seven years and you you, because you're going to end up probably paying double of what you already owe if you double the term on the loan, because all that interest and all that interest is paid up front. It's not at the end that's. All these loans work. You know, they're gonna get their money first. Yeah, if you, you know, maybe you can refinance both of them at a lower interest rate and save grid or two a month. Okay, I think that's worth it. It just, but I would not extend the horizon on the term. Okay, all right, it'll cost you a lot more, yeah,

Speaker 3  35:25
and so I owe nine grand on the second car that doesn't get used, and I still have maybe six or five grand left on the one I do use every day. So we're talking like, you know, we'll just say 15 grand. But like, like, if I could snap my fingers and I had a business right now, you know, like, I wouldn't, I would have 15 grand. I could pay it off within a few months or whatever, and just get it done. I wouldn't plan on paying off over the course of seven years. I would pay it off as soon as I could, you know,

Speaker 1  35:56
yeah, yeah, I see what you're saying. Like, it that's the risk. Like, are you able to, you know, to get liquid funds to pay it off in a year or two? Or would you be stuck paying over the lifetime of the loan, and then get to a point where your good car starts having problems because it gets enough mileage on it, and then you're thinking, Oh crap, now I gotta buy a third car somehow.

Unknown Speaker  36:21
Okay, so maybe we just leave things where they are, fuck it up.

Speaker 1  36:26
It's worth looking into. If you can, if you can decrease the cost and keep the same term, why not?

Speaker 3  36:32
Yeah, that's true. Why not? Yeah. My brother tells me I should just sell the second car for parts. I was like, I mean, I might need a title first.

Speaker 1  36:44
Well, you don't need a title to sell parts off of it, but yeah, that's, I don't know, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  36:50
don't give me any bad ideas. But thank you.

Speaker 1  36:57
Alright, does anybody have any questions about the refinance before we go to the mentorship.

Unknown Speaker  37:01
I have a quick question

Speaker 4  37:05
on your your four Plex partner deal. How did you like? How did you and your partner decide, like, when you're going to take money out and then when you do that? Have you guys already decided on what percentage like, who gets what?

Speaker 1  37:21
Yeah, that's a great question. So he's a good friend of mine, so we have a great working relationship, like, it's never been an issue. So when we, when we entered in the partnership on these properties, he brought 75% of the down payment. I brought 25% and then I'm, I manage it with my property management company, and then we split. So from the from the day we signed the papers, we're 5050, on everything, but he was bringing a much higher down payment than me. He just didn't want the hassle his His thing was he wanted, he needed to deploy capital as what he always says, so he can have the deductions and just not have that money laying around. So for this one, when we do pull equity out, you know, we'll pull it out 5050, and on the refinance, he's paying 75% of the refinance costs, and I'm paying 25% again, same thing, because he doesn't, he's not bothered with the day to day, and, you know, keeping people there and making sure they pay their rents and all that stuff. That's, that's our trade off, gotcha.

Speaker 4  38:30
And so I'm curious, because you do own a property management company. So I Are you doing that for free, or are you billing that out somehow to yourself?

Speaker 1  38:39
Yeah, no, I'm just, I'm just using the infrastructure, and because I already have the software, I always already have everything in place. I just don't bill it, it just, I just use all my resources to take care of it myself. And like, I don't, if anything big happens, I don't expect, like, you know, the guys that are working for the company to deal with it, you know, I'll deal with it.

Speaker 4  39:07
Makes sense. Thanks. I don't know is, do you have? Is there a class on partnerships already?

Speaker 1  39:14
There isn't that. That's actually a good idea, though. I'm looking for new ideas for classes, but that's a good one. Yeah, yeah. Might be able to do that next week, because there's so many different ways to structure especially. Are you talking about real estate partnerships specifically?

Speaker 4  39:30
Well, I'd be interested in both. But yes, real estate specifically, actually was talking with someone last week about that, and I was like, I don't know how to structure that. They're a good friend too, and I want to make sure that sure that I don't ruin that relationship. So that's why I was, like, a little cautious about that.

Speaker 1  39:47
Yeah, it's, it's really tough, and you have to, you have to think about the situation of, you know, maybe it's a couple, you know, you're, you're partnering with someone that's married, and then they get a divorce, then what happens? You know. So is the the spouse, one of those spouses going to force a sale? There's like all kinds of stuff that you have to think about when you create the contract. So, yeah, that's a good idea. We might, we might do that next week or the week after.

Speaker 5  40:20
Okay, I have a question. Shane, okay, for the refinance or the HELOC, would you only use that for a long term rental, or would you consider doing that for a short term rental too? Yeah.

Speaker 1  40:35
I mean, it doesn't really matter, as long as it cash flows, right? I wouldn't, yeah, to me, the the investment is type is secondary to, you know, what kind of cash flow it brings back so, and especially with real estate. So if it's a short term rental, you still have equity in the place. You still, yeah, I Yeah.

Speaker 5  40:57
I just think of like, short term rental is, like, a little bit more risky, because long term rental, I guess you have more steady rent, you know, to where is like, if the economy tanks or something happens, you might not with the short term, yeah?

Speaker 1  41:11
I mean, the biggest fear with short term rentals is that they change the laws in that area. Yeah, you can't do it anymore. I kind of got lucky. I was going to buy one. I think it's in the city, about 50 miles away, and they, just a few months ago, just completely stopped all short term rentals in the city.

Speaker 5  41:32
Did they grandfather any in? No, no,

Speaker 1  41:38
which, which is so I think now you can't have a tenant in there for less than a month. That's that's the wow, yeah, so it completely there's a bunch of properties on the market that are not selling because of that, because the only reason that they were good deals to begin with, because they were short term rentals. So, yeah, I, I kind of dodged the bullet on that one. But so that, to me, that's the biggest risk. I think even when the economy, it depends on the type of property, if you're getting a vacation destination where they're

Speaker 5  42:12
that's the only thing that I'm looking at. It's like, vacation destinations.

Speaker 1  42:15
Okay, then, yeah, that's definitely a risk. It's not as recession resistant as just, you know, something in the city that's economical, that can compete with hotels where people have a family and they're traveling through and they want to stay there. But, yeah, yeah, that's, that's the risk. I mean, it still might be a good deal, though. And then you also, to me, with short term rentals, you always want to have an exit strategy if it doesn't work out anymore. So what happens if the laws do change? Can you turn it to a long term rental, get a tenant in there to where it at least breaks even? Is it in a market where people want to buy that home to actually live in there? You know, you just have to be ready for those things if they come up, but I still think it's, it's, it would still be a good investment, but I wouldn't do a HELOC right now unless you have a really low interest rate.

Unknown Speaker  43:08
I do. I have three. I have a three. Yeah,

Speaker 5  43:13
I can't, yeah, nice. That's cool. I have free money.

Speaker 1  43:17
Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, I would definitely be looking for something to use that for. And with the short term rental, you get all those, you know, short term rental loophole, everything on your you know, you can deductive income, all that good stuff. So there's a lot of advantages to the short term rentals. Yeah, it's good question. Okay, switch to the mentorship.
