Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, August, 21 2025 and tonight I wanted to talk about the transition process when you first buy a business. So I got a little annoyed, because I've been seeing a lot of people on social media that say just off the wall things about buying businesses and like these really rosy colored,

Unknown Speaker  00:33
just like

Unknown Speaker  00:35
not realistic,

Speaker 1  00:38
like stories of buying a business, because not everything is going to work right. And it's it's not easy. It's not like it's not a lot of work. It takes a lot of work. It's very, I've said it many times. It's a very intense few weeks of getting everything transitioned over, getting your managers empowered, getting everything in place that you want to be in place, to where you can start pulling back. That is not as easy as it sounds, or people would have you believe, but it is 100% possible. And the end goal of what we're doing right? Because any of the if you have to be if you can't leave your business for a week and it still makes money, you don't have a business, you have a job. That is the difference. And there are plenty of business owners out there that are there all the time. They make good money, but that's not a true business owner. That's not in someone who invest in invests in businesses. That's someone who just runs a business. They're operators. They're not owners, not in the in the way that I define an owner, an owner should set the future of the business. Should set the long term goals, focus the managers and make sure that it's going in the direction that you want it to go. But that doesn't mean you have to be there every day, all day, but that is a process, especially if you buy a business that is already being run by a boomer, that might be there 60 hours a week, 5040, hours a week. So you have to systematically dismantle the idea that it can only run with that owner, because that's what these that's what these business owners think. That's why they are so intertwined into the business, they feel like no one can run the business like they do. So they won't relinquish that control to someone who may actually do it better than they do. And I can honestly say that most of my businesses, the managers themselves, are better at doing what they do than I would be, because they bring their own skill set, like for auto repair shops, my lead tech slash general managers, they know a lot about automotive repair, way more than I will ever know. So they are more suited to the day to day, handling customers, handling cars, handling repairs, things like that than I ever would be. So why would I go in there and try to micromanage someone who knows more than I do? And that's where the these owners make a mistake. So what I want to talk about tonight is I want to talk about the plan that I try, always try to follow when I first buy a business. So you can see, like, day one. Okay, we get in there. Here's what we start to do, week one, week two and week three. So let me share my screen. I can kind of show you I just created a real simple PowerPoint. It's not it's not fancy, but before you even buy the business, you've done your due diligence, right? You have a certain amount of working capital, and you're looking at a closing date, you say, okay, my closing date is next month on the 20th everything's looking good. I already have my LLC because you probably got funding however you did it, or you have an LLC waiting to be able to do that asset sale, like we've talked about. Now what so what you can start doing is you can get permits and licenses every you know, municipality, county, maybe state, will require you to get a license. You have to get a merchant's license, a business license. You're going to have to get a sales tax ID. You're going to have to do a lot of, you know, annoying paperwork that you don't want to be stuck doing on day one of the acquisition. You want to go ahead and get that stuff done ahead of time. And it's as simple as saying, you can even ask chat GPT, what do I need? What licenses do I need in this state for this kind of business, or in this city, in this kind of business? And they will guide you to it, and it will show you even the, you know, the URLs, the links of where you need to go to apply, and it's, it's not difficult, it just takes time. So you can do that before you even close on it. And the only risk there if you happen to not close is you might have 50 to $100 in, you know, permit and license fees. And just the way. Of time to fill it all out, but your your next stage is you should definitely have a business checking that's going to be devoted specifically to that business, if not a business checking and a business savings and then a business credit card. So here's why a business credit card is so important, because, say you're going into a, I don't know, let's, let's say it's a tire shop, or now, let's say it's HVAC. So an HVAC company, you want to buy one of those? Well, an HVAC company, they have a vendor that, you know, they might get their conduit from, they might get their their pipes from, they might get their tools from, like, all you know, they might have five, 610, 15 different vendors that they source all of their supplies and inventory from. You don't want to have to go and create, like net 30 accounts at all of those places. There's no need for that. So what you want to do is you just want to have a card, a business card that has a high enough limit where you can cover those expenses, where you're never slowed down. Because one of the biggest fears of all employees is that you're going to come in, you're going to change things, and business is going to slow they're going to lose their job. So what you want them to know is nothing's going to change. Everything's going to be the same. We have plenty of money, plenty of credit, to keep things going as they were, if not better. So you could go around and get all net 30 accounts and apply for credit accounts at all these different vendors, but it doesn't make sense if you get one good, solid business checking, or, excuse me, business credit card like a chase sapphire, that you get a chase sapphire realistically for about with about a $30,000 limit on an established business. It's pretty easy to do that, and that'll cover all of your monthly expenses. It'll have zero APR for a year, you'll get all kinds of perks. You can run all of your vendors through there, and if you choose to get in that 30 accounts with those vendors, you can later, but you don't want to be stuck doing that to try to continue business as usual when you first get in there that first week, because you don't want to rely on the old counts accounts of the old owner. You want a clean break and a clean separation as soon as possible. And it will take about a week to do that, but it'll be much easier if you have that business credit card. So let's talk about week one. So week one, you step into a business. You're not changing anything. You should not change anything. The last thing you want to do is go in there and think all you know, everything that I want to do, let's go ahead and start it. I know better than this old owner. I want to change this, this, this and this. You might want to do that, but don't come in there guns blazing like you're going to change everything you want to make everything smooth, keep your employees calm and not worried. Okay, so keep all the systems and procedures the same, how they intake customers, how they advertise, how they whatever it is, how they deal, deal with the day to day operations and and payroll and time clocks and all that stuff. There's no need to change anything that first week. You want to just talk to the employees, make them feel at ease. You want to let them know that you're dedicated to keeping them, dedicated to keeping the business thriving. You're not planning on bringing in new management, or, you know, new employees, new a bunch of new stuff. You just want to carry the torch of the old owner, and during this time, you'll defer to the owner. You want to learn everything you can from them. They've been running this business for years. They are a wealth of knowledge. They have inside information that maybe no one else can will know. But at the same time, many of the employees will give you that alpha information that you might not get from the owner, like things that might be wrong, things that might not be on the surface, frictions between the old owner and and the manager, like all kinds of stuff, you know, it can be a little caddy inside businesses. So you want your ear to the, you know, to all of that, that information, so you can get, like, a gage of what's truly going on day to day, and then you're going to move those vendor accounts and bills to your LLC and your credit card. So you want everything moved over as quickly as possible. That should be your number one focus is learning. Number two, switching all the bills, all the vendor accounts, and then number three, making your employees feel at ease and concentrate on the payroll platform. You don't want to go in there and put your your new payroll platform, or anything like that, whatever they're using. Try to keep it the same for those employees, because, like I said, You want everything to be the same. Okay, So week one, you're there every day, all day. You're putting in some long days. You're. Are getting there earlier than everyone. You're staying later than everyone. It's just part of the grind. Be ready for a week of

Unknown Speaker  10:10
nerves, fear

Speaker 1  10:14
and just activity, right? There's a lot of stuff in in week one that you have to just overcome. You're, you know, the night before you sign those papers, you're going to be nervous, you're going to be scared, you're going to think, is this a good idea? Holy shit. What am I doing? Why? Why did I choose to do this? I could have just kept my regular job and and kept things going. I was comfortable. But remember, you've done your due diligence. You've gone through all the numbers. It's a good investment. This is part of the transition. It's it's just part of the process, and it will get easier. So week two. Week two is when you start documenting the processes that are currently there. And what I always I call this the playbook, and I like to use Google Drive. It's so easy because just about every business that you buy is going to have already have a website and a domain, and, you know, emails already provided. It'll be, you know, Shane at Bob's burgers.com, or whatever, right? So you get all of that in your purchase. So if it's a Google account, then you're also going to get a Google Drive. So I create a shared folder, and I call it, you know, whatever the company name, and inside that is going to be the playbook, and you start recording what they currently do. Doesn't matter if it's good or bad, it's just what the current standard operating procedures are, how they open the business, how they close the business, how they do payroll, how they do bookkeeping, just anything that you can think of, how they pay vendors, whatever it is, everything that you can think of. Go ahead and document it all, a list of the vendors, which ones you've transitioned over, which ones you haven't, all of that stuff. And then you want to create a separate folder that has your information that you need just for you. You're not going to share this with anyone else. It's going to be what you feel works and what doesn't work. That's going to be one section of it, like maybe you don't like their payroll processing, maybe you don't like the way they deal with customers or reviews or advertising, whatever it is, and then you want a separate document that has what the employees don't think works or wish, wish that would be changed, because they'll start coming up to you. They'll know that this is their opportunity to have some input on the future of the business, where it's going to go, and if they are truly going to have a future there. So you'll get a lot of good suggestions at this point from people who have been had their ideas basically poo pooed on. So, and then you're going to start to set the the rules and responsibilities of the manager. So you're going to sit down with your manager every day in week two and say, okay, you know, what do you currently do day to day? Here's what I would like for you to do day to day. What can I do for you to make sure that you have all the resources you need to be able to run this if I'm not here? What? What can streamline your systems and operations, and then at the same time, you're not just handing the keys over to this manager. You're making it very clear that this is your business, and you are both stakeholders in the future of this business, right? You're still going to set the vision. You're going to set his his or her responsibilities as a manager, and then you expect them to be able to execute on those but you're not playing hardball. You're still, you know, you don't want to come in like a like a wrecking ball, like, to quote Miley Cyrus, you you definitely want to come in as someone who's just optimistic about the future of the business, and you're shaping someone who who can manage it for you, and you're going to start showing them the playbook and kind of give them slivers of the vision, the vision you have for the future of the business. Okay? I think our revenues are currently here. I'm a big proponent of sharing numbers with the managers, right? Let them know where the business is, right. Now, you don't have to let them know necessarily the profits, if you don't feel comfortable with that, but you can say here's what the Gen the revenues are or were for last year. And they may already know or they may not know, but okay, revenues for last year were $700,000 I think that within a year, we can be at a million dollars. And here's why, because I feel like the previous owner was not taking advantage of advertising. They were not treating customers that whatever. And then at that point, generally, the manager is going to say, Yeah, and I think we could do this. We could do this. We could do. That. And those things are gems, that is, that is gold. Generally, they will have some good ideas that they have not been allowed to implement, and you make note of those, write them down. You don't want to ever lose out on a good idea from a manager, because they'll remember that they told you, and if you don't, at least bring it up and say why you don't want to do it, then they'll feel like they haven't been heard. Managers always want to know they've been heard. And you want to finish the full transition. You know all your vendor accounts, everything should be completely done by the end of week two. You should not have to deal with that when you get to week three. And this is also when you install your software and cameras, generally, they'll have a point of sale system. If they don't, you're going to have to bring one in from scratch, and that might kind of push this timeline off a little bit, but if they already have one, just learn it, make sure that they're using it the right way. And you have to have cameras up and in place. And some people, some employees, will feel a little weird about that, but you'll just have to talk to them about it and tell them it's for security. You don't think they're stealing that kind of stuff, because that's what they'll feel like. You don't trust them. So always, always defer to the employees so they feel comfortable. And you get to week three. Week Three, you've put in two hard, hard weeks of long days of stress, of a lot of paperwork, of a lot of learning. It's like drinking from a fire hose to try to learn everything about this business. Week three is when you start to slowly step back. You should not be there every day now if you don't feel comfortable, if you don't think that the manager is ready to take it over, and they haven't been taken over, then you maybe go in in the morning and you leave early every day, or you leave for big chunks of the day and you come back to close. But whatever you do, you don't want to be there every single day, because you don't want to start that habit and make them reliant upon you, even when you're there, you should not be running the day to day. You should just be there checking to make sure that the manager is running the day to day the way that you want them to. Okay, you're not going and checking on the employees and making sure they're doing what they're doing. I mean, you can look, you can observe those things, but you wouldn't be going to the employee and say, Hey, why aren't you doing your job or whatever, run all of that stuff through the GM at this time, the owner should not be there either, and this is going to be a contentious point, probably, because if that owner has been there every single day, all day, then they're going to say, Oh, these they can't run it. They can't do that because they're control freaks, and they micromanage everything. You'll get owners like that, and you'll get owner, other owners, that are so thankful that they can just leave, that they won't give a crap, they'll just leave. It just depends on the situation. And during this time when you're not there, there's going to be mistakes. There's going to be mishaps. There's going to be, you know, like on the closing procedures, maybe a door that doesn't get locked. There's going to be phone calls that are missed. There's going to be a lot of stuff as they learn, but you have have to give them room to make their mistakes so you can correct those mistakes so it doesn't happen again, or ideally, you have the manager correct those mistakes and you bring it to the manager's attention, so that way they know what to look for. And while you're not there, just reach out to the manager and say, Hey, do you have everything you need? How are things going but you're not going to manage for them. You have to let them do it, and it's hard because you just put all of this money into this business, you took all of this risk, and it's like, it's like buying a brand new car and giving the keys to your 16 year old kid, right? It's scary. That's what it feels that's what it feels like. But you have to remember that this, ideally, this person, has been working there for years because you vetted and picked a good manager. They know what they're doing. They just need a little time to get comfortable with that role, and then you should focus on the customer service and the future, not the numbers itself for that week. Just make sure the employees are comfortable and training and filling in the roles how you want them to fill in, but don't manage for them. Look at, you know, focus on reviews, focus on advertising, focus on things that are external to the business that you plan on doing from that point and into the future, not the day to day operations. And then week four. Week four, you shouldn't be there very much at all. Week four, it should be a time where, you know, you pick a day, or maybe a couple of half days. Days, you know, maybe a Tuesday and a Thursday or something like that. Just to show up, walk around, say hi to everybody, see how things are going, make sure that the everybody understands the software. Make sure that everybody understands what they're supposed to do. And you're checking up on the systems, not the operations. So what does that mean? The systems are what you have defined in your playbook. The systems are things like, Okay, here's how we intake a customer, here's what, here's how we do this, here's here's how we do that. But you're not checking up on how every employee is following those systems. You're going to talk to the manager and say, Is this working? Does this flow work? From taking a customer from reception all the way to invoicing and check out? Does it seem like it works? And if they say, Well, this is a little clunky right here, maybe we could do this. Then you refine the system. You don't go to the employees and say, Hey, you're not doing this right? That's the responsibility of the manager, and at the end of this week, you're reviewing the numbers. Hopefully you're not losing money. You should be about breaking even or making money at that point. Ideally, you have not lost any money through the transition at all. But it just depends on how chaotic the old owner was and all that kind of stuff. And then you're going to encourage the managers to reach out whenever they have a problem. You will always be available, but you're not going to be there day to day, and at this point, you know you might clean up some maybe a vendor account that got missed. Maybe you have to switch a vendor account because they only take checks, and you don't want to be there to write a check, stuff like that, little things that that come up where you know you're like, okay, that doesn't make sense for our day to day operations. I'm going to create, rather than go to Menards on Sundays and buy supplies, I'm going to create an Amazon business account and put it on subscription service, because I'm not going to Menards every damn Sunday to pick up paper towels, and then Week Five shouldn't be there at all. As long as the manager is a competent manager, and things have worked out well, then they can deal with that. This is the time where you have a Zoom meeting or a Google meet with the manager. You start talking about the numbers for the week or for the previous weeks. Like I said, I'm a big fan of sharing those numbers and being transparent. And just say, Okay, here's what these numbers are. I would like to see them here. Here's your goals. I want you to get this business should be doing, you know, 25,000 a week in revenue, every single week. I think it's very attainable. And you know, what do you think? And you just go back and forth on how you can refine your systems to get to those numbers, set realistic goals, and then hold them to those goals. If in a couple of weeks, they're at 30, fantastic. If they're hitting the mark, that's cool, too. If they're, you know, a little bit below, you're just encouraging seeing how you can improve those systems. If they're well below, then maybe your systems aren't good, or your goals aren't good, but you you still share those numbers. You talk it through, see why they think that they're below the numbers, and that's your relationship from that point on, well into the future, is that weekly meeting, bi weekly meeting, where you're talking to the manager, talking about numbers, talking about day to day, talking about, are the employees doing good? You know, did the new hire work out? I changed, you know, you might tell them, I changed the advertising you should be seeing more customers come in. You know, those top level things you're not worried about. Jimmy in receiving that's not happy or came in two days late, none of that stuff you don't care about any of that. That's the manager's problem, not your problem. That's operations. And then you just there it is. You've hit your goal. You're not there every day, you're making money, and you're looking for your next acquisition. So just know, though, that this is not like you're going to buy a business and jump in there, and in a day or two, you're good, okay, it's making money. No, it's not passive like that. It's not easy like that. It's a process. But when you get to a point to where they're running the business the way you want them to, they're happy. They're well compensated, they know exactly what they're supposed to do and their goals. It's golden. I mean, it's, it's, it's really, I don't know it is. It's hard to to explain what it feels like, because you go from this, you go from this huge risk and this fear. Better to, you know, almost like dread, like, Why did I do this? And then you're like, Okay, maybe this might work to a point to where, wow, this is, not only is this working, but this is working even better than I thought. And then you move on to the next one, but that first one is going to be rough. But after that, that playbook that you make in the very first one is going to apply to about 75% of any other business that you buy, whether it's dealing with employees, hiring, payroll, all that kind of stuff, you're not starting from scratch each and every time you're taking what you've already learned from business one and applying it to business two, and then business three and business four and business five, and you just keep scaling like that. The only way that you can scale as a business owner is to not be an operator. That's why the person that was there before that sold, it was there every single day, and probably only had that one single business. If they had dozens of businesses, or even three or four, then they wouldn't be there day to day. They'd have a manager. So yeah,

Unknown Speaker  26:15
I hope I didn't scare you guys

Speaker 1  26:19
about the process, but I want to be realistic about what it takes and the fact that it's not an easy transition, but it is totally, totally doable. And once you go through this, some of them are, you know, a smaller business takes less time. A bigger business tends to take more time. The owner can be a headache. Sometimes, the even the manager can be a headache sometimes. But one, I say, a maximum of five weeks, a minimum of three, you can have a business that is absentee, that is making 1000s and 1000s of dollars per month, and then you're sitting at home looking at cameras while they do the work.

Unknown Speaker  27:08
Yep, it's nothing like it.

Speaker 2  27:18
What's up? Daniel, hey, so I've got questions about just the manager. Is this a good time to ask questions? Or wait, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Okay. All right. So, okay. So I, what I'm hearing is that the manager, engagement with the manager is, is paramount. It was just like, so, so important. So I'm wondering your in your experience, do you kind of assess, like, who you're dealing with as the manager, like, who the manager is before you acquire, like, when you're doing that vetting process, and you know, just that due diligence and you make that connection with the owner, do you also get an opportunity to see who their manager is? Or, like, have that? Or is that something you just kind of inherit after you get the business, and you kind of just get a surprise? Oh, I'm, I'm the manager. And you get introduction to the manager after acquiring,

Speaker 1  28:14
yeah, no surprises. I don't want any surprises in the business, because a surprise in business is going to be something bad news. That's you do. You don't want to leave anything to chance. So the very first time that I visit a business, even if I'm going as a consumer, I'm watching everyone that's there. I'm going to talk to the, you know, the employees that are already there. I'm going to observe what's going on. Yeah, no, I if I don't think that there is someone that is solid, that's already there, I won't do it right?

Speaker 2  28:52
So you're looking for those interactions and to meet the those leaders. And then also, is it usually one key person manager. Is it like, Are we, are we looking at businesses that have multiple managers? And do you see any caveats, like, if they're say, if there's like, four or five managers, like, is there any issues with that? Or less? Is less better?

Speaker 1  29:16
Well, I mean, if you can have one solid manager and one person that you think is the potential to step up if that manager doesn't work out, that's the ideal situation. But it depends on the size of the business you're buying. You know, if you're, if you're going to buy a business that has 30 employees, that's a whole different situation than one that has seven, you know, one with 30, you've got multiple people in there, you know, as like, supervisors, not necessarily managers, right? You might have crew chiefs, team leaders or whatever, but you know, if you put all your eggs in one basket, it can be kind of scary, so you always want redundancy everywhere, whether it's a manager a key role. Goal doesn't matter what it is, but you know, nothing is ever going to be 100% safe at a certain point. You have to trust your instincts and that you've talked to this person. You feel like that they are competent, they know what they're talking about, and they're your person to manage that business. But yeah, I don't. I don't like trying to bring someone in from the outside. I don't think that really works. I'm pretty I pretty much avoid that situation like so if you find a business that's making a whole lot of money but is not absentee at all, there's nobody that's currently even partially filling a leadership role, and you think, okay, it makes so much money, I'm going to bring in someone from the outside to manage that business more times than not, it doesn't work out, and you end up losing a lot of money to begin with, because it takes them a long time to actually learn what they need to learn so they can manage effectively. So I really don't like doing that.

Speaker 2  31:03
Okay, I have one just follow up question to that about the manager. So as far as just like communicating with them in the first few weeks to see how things are working and and what this, you know, understanding the systems, and, oh, at what point do you feel like you need to pay them more, or do you even consider that when you're day one? So day one, because they put under undervalued, you know, really a strong asset, but they're just underpaid. And I'm wondering, like, how do you make that assessment of needing to pay them more than what they're, you know, because you don't want to be manipulated. Like, you know, somebody just saying, oh, yeah, I need to be paid more. And, yeah, you're, you're coming on, new to this, so you need to pay me more.

Speaker 1  31:49
Like, right? Well, I ideally, you know, I'll come in, I'll at least present them with an employment agreement for a couple of years and say, hey, you know, this is what you're currently making. I'm willing to give you this amount with a profit share, as long as you grow the business. So what it does is it, you know, employment agreements always have non compete clauses, so if they if they're comfortable assigning it, you have someone for two years, generally, because they're not going to be able to just quit and go do a similar job in the county or in that city. Two, you're defining what you expect from them, and also that they're not just an employee. If they get a percentage of the profits when you grow, they're more of a business partner than they are an employee, and that changes the whole dynamic of what you have going on. Where they were simply working, even if they were had the title of GM, nine times out of 10, they don't have any equity, they don't have any stake in the business. They're just there working hard for an owner that may or may not appreciate them. But when you just when you say, I'll give you 10% of the profits, net profits, if you grow this business, then they become a stakeholder and not an employee. Then they work extra hours because they want to make more money. They want the business to grow, they'll do the extra things that need to be done just like you would as an owner. And that needs to happen day one. You need to let them in on the plan. I want to grow this business like I said. You know, we're making 700,000 a year. I think we can make a million this year. That would put our net profit about this much per month, which could be a potential of this this much extra for you. And sky's the limit. Who know? You know, maybe next year we can go 1.2 1.3 and we just continue to grow year over year. And I believe in your skills and your leadership ability for this, for this business, and I'm willing to give you the tools and resources you need to grow it and run it the way that it should have been run all these years. And that will work. That will work nine times out of 10, and it will put you in a good position with them. It'll give them an opportunity that they didn't even know existed in their life because they were just at a job that may or may not have been going anywhere, but there's they've still been there for years, right? So it just opens up all kinds of doors for them. And, yeah, it changes things. It really does. But day one, day one, you want to do that.

Unknown Speaker  34:24
I like that. Thank you for sharing that. Yeah,

Speaker 1  34:30
because you have to be able to trust them, and you're going to spend a lot of time talking to them, a lot of time dealing with them, you're going to become friends with them like we have my wife and I, we have the managers come out and hang out, not not all together, right, but just, you know, in different, a different group like this, this Sunday, you know, we're having one of the auto repair shops, the the manager and his wife, they're going to come, we're going to have a dinner at my house, because relationships are important. And. And you have to be able to trust them, and they have to be able to trust you, or it's not going to

Unknown Speaker  35:09
work. Great question.

Unknown Speaker  35:17
Anyone else have a question?

Unknown Speaker  35:24
Not even Joe. Joe doesn't have a question,

Speaker 2  35:32
you know, what? With that? Profit agreement, profit share agreement, with it, like you gave an example of 10% if the company, as the company grows, when do they I know it's how you structure the agreement, but like, what was, what's common? It's like, is it from day one of the agreement, they start earning profits as things start moving, or are like,

Speaker 1  35:57
you have to benchmark what the net profit. So the first month, it's kind of a wash. You have a lot it's really hard to keep track of the money in, money out, everything's kind of in transition. So you let them know ahead of time, like, hey, for right now, we're doing year over year numbers. You know that that's, that's what you're going to start off with. Like, Okay, last year in August, at the end of August, it made $80,000 for the month. This year, we made 81,000 so we're right on par. We're not really growing, but, you know, that's $1,000 profit. You know, you get 100 bucks. But that that's how you start that year over year, you would start the first month. And you know, they don't get penalized if you don't make money. But you know, I like, if you have software, it pretty much the point of sale. Software will show them the numbers they should be able to see, like, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, every day, what the numbers are. And if they they get concerned, like, Hey, we're really slow right now. Is there anything you can do that? A lot of managers will reach out, because they want to make those numbers. They want to they want that bonus at the end of the month, and which is great, because you might be concentrating on another business. And they say, Hey, you know this, these are our numbers, you know, and we're getting toward the end of the month. I don't know what's going on. It's really slow. Maybe we can, you know, put more money in the Google ads, or the the meta ads, or whatever. And, you know, it'll give you an opportunity to go look at it and think, Well, yeah, maybe we should. I'll put an extra $1,000 on Google ads for the month. And, you know, blow the lid off of this month. But yeah, year over year. That's how that because otherwise you can't really do the comparison, and usually it's a month behind, depending on your accounting software or your bookkeeper. So they'll get the August bonus at the end of September, because it takes a while to do that bookkeeping. Yeah.

Speaker 3  38:06
Yep, okay,

Unknown Speaker  38:14
no more questions.
