Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It's July 18, 2025 we're going to start the mentorship portion.

Unknown Speaker  00:11
I'm going to I'll start with a just a little icebreaker.

Speaker 1  00:16
So to give you kind of some progress on my current deal, we did reach an agreement for seller financing on the inventory, so I would imagine that by the end of next week, we'll have everything situated, and the old owner will be completely gone where we don't have to worry about dealing with him and his unwillingness to let go of the business. So but yeah, we're there. We came to a good deal the parts. The parts are listed in inventory as costing 360 we came up with a deal for 325, and the retail value of those parts is 790, so. And that's prior to the tariffs. The tariffs should go into effect on the 30th, or no, August 1. I think it is so auto parts from European countries, especially Germany and and England, are going to go up by, I think, 30% so that's going to increase the price of all parts. You know, they all go up right as the tide rises, all the, you know, all the boats rise. So that's just that should be good timing. We'll see. But, but, yeah, we're finally, probably rid of him after next week. And, you know, he can retire. His family was pressuring him to retire because they felt like, well, you're still there. You're still doing all the things that you were doing, like I thought you sold this business, and that's exactly what I said, too, like I thought you sold this business. So it's, it's, it's working out just a little more slowly than than we had hoped. Okay, so does anyone have any any questions or anything they need to talk about or ask or analyze? What's everybody got going on.

Speaker 2  02:06
We reached out to the one, the one self serve car wash in our little town. My husband didn't. And everyone, of course, in town, was like, oh, good luck. Those old Germans. They never sell anything. That's who owns that during big trouble. And shockingly, he's like, No. No one's ever mentioned it or approached us about it, but okay, we you know, in he said he was like, man, everything's always breaking down on those there's always trouble breaking and but the money keeps rolling in, so we just keep it. Keep it going. They built it in 2002 but he mentioned, like, a couple of family members, one passed away. One had gotten out of the family business, and so we're both gonna be out of town this next week, but he agreed to to exchange some list of questions and talk about it the following week. So we're kind of shocked that he's willing to sit down and have a conversation.

Speaker 1  02:55
Yeah, well, I've found that that's actually the case. A lot of people want to sell their business. They don't know how to do it. They just, or they're, they're, you know, they just, they think, well, we're, we're stuck with this forever. I don't know what to do. I don't want to pay a broker. So you might hit them at the right time.

Speaker 2  03:11
That's and the prices do look low. Like I saw, I've only watched, I've been watching some car wash information and and you'll see, like, truck towels in there, in their vending machine says 50 cents. And I was like, I'm pretty sure everything I looked at nothing in the vending machine is 50 cents, but that's probably what in 2002 the stickers came across that said, so I don't think they've raised anything, because they have a lot of other investments in businesses and land and and stuff. So I don't think it, I just don't think it matters, and it's great because they've got those one and two star reviews. It's kind of those ones that you want to get and make those changes and bring the value and and it's the only one in town, that's

Speaker 1  03:44
it, yeah, and it's already making money. Do you know anything about the financials?

Speaker 2  03:49
Not yet, but that's what's coming up next. But he, he was one that kept saying it, there's always some hassle with it, but, man, it just keeps printing money. So we just keep doing it. So we will, we will be getting our due diligence list to him this next week so we can meet up the following week. Okay, cool. That sounds promising. The good thing about being a small town, it's gotta be a flip side. The good thing is people know us here and know we have businesses. And so that's the that's the good part of it is we don't we can skip right past a lot of the oh, we'll be good for it. Or, you know, if, if we do it, they're like, oh, yeah, of course, y'all, y'all, have businesses. This might work out. So I guess with everything, there's a trade,

Unknown Speaker  04:25
yeah, yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  04:38
Anybody else, any questions this?

Speaker 3  04:43
Week, I love to introduce myself, if I may, yeah, yeah, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  04:55
Can you guys hear me?

Unknown Speaker  04:57
Okay, yeah, you froze for a second, but you're back. I

Speaker 3  05:04
Okay, all right, just want to make sure I don't want to be talking and you guys can't hear me. Are we good now? Yeah, we're good. I think I'm freezing up here. Okay, I think we're good. So late last year. I mean, the trucking, logistics, supply chain and the warehousing business. And we sold our business to private equity. We were doing about 50 million a year. And we're based out of Bay Area, California. And, I mean, I recently just joined the group and been watching Mr. Shane's videos a lot. So it's been, you know, that thought it would be a good community to join and kind of share ideas. And again, recently. So it's been about six or seven months, we sold our business and kind of in the market to either start up an AI business or, you know, buy existing businesses. So that's why I kind of joined, and I would love to, you know, if anybody wants to connect with me and ask me questions about it. So that's just kind of my background in the trucking and the warehousing world. So we deal with a lot of import exports over their own stuff, you know, all over the US. So I kind of stayed on in the company for about a year, or maybe the next two years, to help them manage and run the run the operation. So yeah, I would love to answer if anybody has any questions, and glad to be in this community where, you know, I think, yep.

Speaker 4  06:42
Can you tell would you be able to repeat what type of business that was? I'm so sorry. One of my kids was being super loud in the background.

Speaker 3  06:50
No, you're good, yeah. So we're mainly, or we do three core services. One is the trucking side of things. So we do a lot of import exports. The container moves for the big trucks, you know. And then the second, second services the warehousing operation where we store products cross dock, you know. We work with Tesla, a lot of E commerce businesses, where we help them store their product and and deliver it wherever they may be wanting to, you know, and then the third service was over the road, stuff. So one product comes in in a container port of Oakland. We cross dock it, keep in our warehouse, and then deliver it to Florida, Texas, wherever they want to take that product. So pretty much whole supply chain, three PL business. So my dad and dad's partner, I kind of helped. I helped them scale the business from one truck to, like, 60 trucks. And then the main thing was, you know, I started delegating, hiring staff, hiring overseas, you know, helped build a marketing team in the company, and we used a business broker to sell the sell the business, yeah, what

Unknown Speaker  08:03
did you guys sell the business for?

Speaker 3  08:06
So it was about 6 million. And I know it was kind of undervalued, but the trucking industry has taken a big hit the last couple of years, you know.

Unknown Speaker  08:16
So, so yeah, about 6 million. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  08:19
Awesome. Congratulations. Thank you.

Speaker 1  08:26
Well, welcome to the community. You know, if you, if you have any questions about like, if you know, especially if you, you mentioned possibly starting an AI business or buying an AI business, that's a it's a tough one, because it's so diluted. There's so many people in that industry, and you just put the name, you just put AI on the end of any business name, and it makes it worth, you know, a couple double the multiple.

Speaker 3  08:54
Yeah, no, I got, like, a broad thing, but more likely, like, a marketing type of so I got a whole plan, which I'll, I don't want to bore you guys, but, you know, love to share it one day. So again, I'm going to stick to what I know best is supply chain trucking and, you know, kind of, right now I'm doing some, some sort of consulting, consulting gigs. So yeah, I'm kind of still figuring out, do I want to buy a business, or do want to take another route, so,

Speaker 1  09:25
okay, cool, yeah, welcome and yeah, just let, let me know. If you have any questions, I'll help however I can.

Unknown Speaker  09:34
Yep, thank you. What about everybody else? What's going on,

Unknown Speaker  09:44
Tran How you doing?

Speaker 5  09:52
I'm good, just kind of resetting from what I was telling you about how it kind of flopped. I. Pretty hard. Yeah, that's okay. There is one that's a veterinarian business that we're looking at right now. The only problem is their price is too high, so we'll have to see. We're in the middle of talks right now, and we'll have to see if they'll push it down. I think they make like two, 258,000

Unknown Speaker  10:24
but they're asking for like,

Speaker 5  10:27
way over. They're asking for like 800 for the company.

Speaker 1  10:35
Well, are you able to own a veterinary clinic in your state? The regulations on that

Unknown Speaker  10:42
they have D, they already have

Speaker 5  10:46
a DVM, a doctor of veterinary medicine, so you don't need to be one, as long as you have they have two on staff.

Speaker 1  10:54
Okay, business. Every time I take my dog to the vet, it's a fortune, so I need to get into that industry. I've never considered it. That's a good idea. I never see him.

Speaker 5  11:08
I don't know. I was trying to, like, get on a it to find out, because I once it popped, there was two others that popped as well. And I was like, Oh, is there some kind of laws going on in the state or in the federal that is the reason why, but it's now I looked it up, and it's because it's just the type of years that the older veterinarians were into, and that's the reason the lady's selling as well as she's been in the business for 40 years.

Unknown Speaker  11:35
There is a vet shortage too.

Speaker 1  11:39
They're not graduating in the numbers that they used to, because it's a lot of school. They don't, you don't make as much. You know, they could just be a regular doctor, or, you know, a lot of other things they could do, and make a lot more money, and it's high stress, too.

Speaker 5  11:54
Yeah, they're actually bringing on a fresh student, because it's right near that is a benefit of it, that in this one that we're getting into, the only reason I'm even considering it is because the school a big veterinarian, not veterinarian, but K State, will be right there. It'll be like, less than an hour away from from where the veterinarian clinic is. So it'll have, like, an easy flow of students if I ever end up buying it. But yeah, a lot of good lessons learned, I would say, from mine about, you know, even like having the heart to say no, like, I know we want to jump in, but don't jump in just because, you know, if everything doesn't look right, things like that.

Speaker 1  12:42
Yeah, yeah. You know, I always say you'll, you'll never regret a deal you didn't make as much as you regret a bad deal you did make. You know, there'll be other deals. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 5  12:53
We're just taking our time with it now. And that's the benefit. Is we came it was kind of when she's telling her story of how, like they're down to the line. It was the same thing we were down to that that, what was it June 30 date, and I was able to secure all the funds on the 27th so whenever the next business comes up, it'll be an easy, you know, I won't be like, scrounging and trying to, like, get deals done to get, you know, the 10 or 20% down, or whatever it is,

Unknown Speaker  13:25
so we're kind of stuck,

Unknown Speaker  13:28
but yeah, just lessons learned and trying back at

Speaker 1  13:32
it, right? I like at the Veterinary Clinic, yeah, might start looking that's a great idea. I'm just trying to I'm racking my brain. I don't think I have, of course, I have my filter set up for a very specific set of businesses that I like, but I don't remember ever seeing one listed. I wonder if maybe my state might be a little different in the regulations. That could be possible. Look into it, though.

Unknown Speaker  14:10
Okay, anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 1  14:18
Okay, because I need to probably get packed anyway. I gotta go to the airport, get on this plane to go home after a long week. But thanks everybody. Sorry for the day delay, for the mentorship. Next week, we'll be back to normal, back to Thursdays. I'll be home, and we'll be in the monster room just like normal. Have a good week.

Unknown Speaker  14:49
Thank you. Everybody. Take care. Bye.
