Speaker 1  00:02
Hey all This is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, August 7, 2025 and tonight, what we're going to do is we're going to talk about a platform called Apollo, which uses AI to be able to possibly source leads for business acquisition we're always looking for off market deals. And as a matter of fact, I saw a post today from someone that I know has bought multiple businesses, and they were, they were actually telling people, you know, not to use Best Buy Sell, that you can't find a good deal, which I don't agree there. I think it's it's tough to find a good deal. But you know, if you cast a wide net, you find off market deals, you find on market deals. You know, you you're just giving yourself a higher probability of finding a good deal. So, yeah, so I'll let Joseph take it away. Go ahead. Awesome.

Speaker 2  00:58
Very cool. Just two weeks ago, when Ted was on, I was like, I'll be a guest speaker one day, and here I am, two weeks later, manifesting, alright, so, okay, great. So yeah. So there's a software called Apollo, which will find business owners, their contacts or emails, their phone numbers and stuff like that. And so the reason that I decided to kind of go this route is because just like, how Shane was, like, saying, like, you know, business by sales, like the hub of like, businesses for sale, where I'm sure they're getting lots of traffic. And so there might be some competition. You got brokers who got, like, what a 5% or maybe even 10% fee and stuff, so you're paying for all that. But to find off market deals has been kind of like my idea, because there's probably a lot more off market deals than are on market. And I was speaking to a business owner, actually, the other day, like two weeks ago, rather, and I just saw him at the grocery store while doing Instacart, actually, Hey, is that your he had a shirt on for his trucking company. I was like, Hey, is that your business? And he's an older guy. He was, yeah, it's mine. And he started talking to him about, like, how you're about selling it, and just had a conversation with them. And he was, you know, talking about how he had thoughts about it, and by he hadn't really started setting it up and so, but you know, the sellers that, I mean, the business owners, they're out there, but like, if they're not prepped, they might be easier to talk to. They're more laid back. They don't have a broker whispering in their ear like, Hey, we're going to squeeze another one and a half million out of you, whatever, you know, so that. So, I mean, you have a real conversation with the business owner, if you just go directly to them and also, like, you know, you can kind of guide them a little bit also too, or always give them some tips. So I mean, I've kind of had a conversation with him about, like, you know, you want to be the I got an absentee business, or, you know, just give some value. But we had real conversations. What I'm trying to say, just bypass the broker, find an off market deal. So this is Apollo right here. This is, can you see my screen? No, you have to share. To share my screen. Okay, got it? Okay, all right. Here we go. Jump into my let me see here. Am I able to share my screen?

Unknown Speaker  03:23
You should be able to,

Unknown Speaker  03:25
if you hit the share button, it should ask me. And I think

Unknown Speaker  03:29
is that the green

Speaker 2  03:30
here we go, should be able to know, sorry about that. I'm just a little better at technology than my mom, which doesn't say much. Okay, so what do we say about the green screen sharing? Okay, meeting is being recorded. Got it, okay, and then the screen share

Speaker 1  03:52
is where, yeah, green Share button at the bottom. Do you see that? Okay?

Speaker 2  03:56
Deal. Okay, I got it. And there we go. Entire screen Sure? All right, there we go. Are we good? You are screen sharing? All right, is it good to go?

Unknown Speaker  04:14
I just see

Speaker 2  04:18
me. Oh, wait. Well, maybe that's because, that's because you are the main carrier. Alright, cool. Okay, there we go. Thanks for the feedback. Okay, perfect. Okay, so Apollo is like, going to be like the search engine basically, for, you know, the businesses, and so I'll just show you how the filters work. And if you're curious, really quickly, how much it is not affiliate, not that it matters, but $90 a month will get you 4000 emails. I guess you could say phone number that's per credit. If you want a phone number, it's eight credits. So it's a little more expensive to get a phone number. So I just. Kind of give you an idea. So 4000 contact emails a month for 100 bucks. So that's just an idea. What we're at is affordable. If I can afford it, anyone can afford it. That's the way I say, the way I see it. So anyways, okay, so the search engine right here, down this left column is basically all the filters, and the criteria is that you can go out. Can go after right now, I have this filter set for restaurants, and there's annual revenues, and just kind of go down the whole thing really fast. We can do verified emails, job titles. So, yeah, put in owner, President, founder. Otherwise, it's going to come up with everything and anything, the janitor, the cashier, whatever you know, like. So can

Speaker 1  05:49
you give us, like, an overview of what, what it is like, just like a brief, like, a brief summary of, like, kind of, what, what the idea behind it is, and what's what its purpose is, gotcha?

Speaker 2  06:00
Sure. So, okay, so the whole purpose is that you put in the criteria of the business that you want to go after, whether it's plumbing, HVAC, landscaping, etc, and so it's going to filter, it's going to gather all the businesses that it can and you can set the criteria, and then once you have all your filters set and dialed in, then you have over here, all the names, the emails, and then you'd have to get the phone numbers, but you can eventually go ahead and export it, so you would export all of them, hit apply, you know, and then now you can have 300 down at the bottom of the screen here, 371 contacts that I filtered. And so you could export the whole list. I would then take that list, put it into an email mass sender, like, like, instantly, AI is what I'm using right now to send my emails. And so, so now you can have 300 emails sent out to business owners and just kind of write a little, you know, email saying, Hey, are you interested in buying or selling? And, you know, whatever, however you would craft that email. But so the whole point is to find these businesses, get the business owners contact information and send them an email, and just do this quickly. And so we've, like me and my assistant and I have sent out, we just started our email campaign earlier this week, and we've sent out 1000 emails so far. I think that's fine. So just under you see here, yeah, so we've sent out 700 on this list, 200 and so we've sent out 1200 emails so far this week. So but yeah, the whole gist is to use the software to get the business owner's name, email, phone number, and then you can even get into like, even further things, like Facebook pages, etc, and so but, yeah, that's the whole gist of the software. And the filters are super powerful because you can do so I filter, there's job titles. You can also filter by let me see employee numbers. So if I wanted, it'll load up in a second here. But if I want so, it shows how many employees the company has. So with the criteria that we're looking for of like, 10 or more employees, like you can just simply just go, click on this button right here, 11 to 20 employees or whatever. And so that's a powerful filter for finding the kind of businesses that you want. And so we can also go by location. There's Miami. This is what I was last, last doing, was Miami area restaurants, but we could also put in, let's see here, go to industry, put in plumbers. Plumbers.

Unknown Speaker  09:18
No, maybe not. Well.

Speaker 2  09:26
Hold on, sorry, I got you put in the keywords, sorry about that. So you can put in plumbers, plumbing services, and then so forth and keep adding them into so right now, we already have 22 contacts, just to show you how that works. Um, I also have business loans and credit cards we can get get that out of there. So as you filter through the things, you get more and more results. This is another filter I wanted to show you. Um. It also can do revenue. So if you wanted to change revenue, like how much money the month the company's making, we could do 500,000

Unknown Speaker  10:12
to a million dollars. Let's see here so

Speaker 2  10:22
you can change how much the revenue is making, and just kind of go through all these filters. Sorry, I'm kind of going all over the place. If you have any questions, or you want to get me on back, get me back on track.

Speaker 1  10:34
So do you what do you know how it's sourcing this data? Is it just public websites, like, if the company has a website that lists who the employees are. Do you know? Like, how that happens is this? Is that just AI, like scraping everything together?

Speaker 2  10:52
I don't know that. I can maybe ask the chat GBT, but I don't know that offhand,

Speaker 1  11:02
so and then you only pay if you send the emails correct.

Unknown Speaker  11:05
If you export it,

Speaker 2  11:10
yeah, you have to you pay for that exporting. So let me see here. So if you do, yeah, and you export everything, I mean, because right now you can get you can export it using this button.

Unknown Speaker  11:24
Otherwise, a second ago,

Unknown Speaker  11:28
on this page,

Speaker 2  11:31
I remember seeing there, okay, okay, email, okay, so there's no access to this one. That was the previous list I had. That's why I was able to see the emails. But yeah, so you, basically pay to get access to the information.

Speaker 1  11:46
So, have you tested the validity of the data as far as, like, a local business that you know who the owner is, like, have you you know, for instance, like just, just picking a random city where you know several owners, and just to see if, like, it gets you the right data. Oh, yeah, the

Speaker 2  12:05
only thing that there is a restaurant in my city that I was doing a whole restaurant search, like, he's like, I said, there's a restaurant called Cool Hanes. And then it did pull up, like, four of the owners, like, their personal names and everything. And I did look it up on Google, like, hey, who owns this restaurant, and it mentioned everybody on that email. So on the email list, yeah, I pulled up four different emails, like, Kim at cool Haynes, Kathy at cool Haynes. And I looked it up on Google and said, hey, who owns cool hands, and it listed everyone that had their own personal email.

Speaker 1  12:41
I saw a funding filter. What does that funding filter do? Is that say, what, how they funded their business? Is that? What that

Speaker 2  12:50
is, I believe. So the funding, yeah. So here we go. So, yeah, funding, seed, Angel venture, where they are in their series here, debt financing, private equity. So yeah, right now, there's only 12 people in this search, because I just kind of exited a bunch of stuff and, and it's not really a fully loaded search, but, um, but yeah. Otherwise, you know, if I were to do restaurants, there's like 36,000 restaurants right now. It's just where we at. We're at Miami. We can undo a lot of these things. Okay, so just to open up a little bit more. So if you wanted plumbing services, let me see here. Series A, seed series, A, I'm not sure what this would be for debt financing. So other So, yeah, it's pretty interesting tool. As far as, like, how detailed it can get into I crossed out some other filters just second ago that were, like, looking for businesses that were looking for credit cards and loans and stuff of that. So that way, see if I can give them a loan or something that, like, from a loan, like as a loan broker. So it's pretty wild. Like, how many different, different ways you can filter this thing out. And again, going back to this filter over here, you can go to Company, go to employees, and then company employee number. So if you wanted a plumbing company with, you know, like, right here, you got 11 to 20 employees. There's 100 of these employees.

Speaker 1  14:39
So you can in there and use the system, yeah?

Speaker 2  14:44
So this is like, you know, so you probably would, you know, because we want certain amount of employees, yeah, custom range right here. And so we already have 100 to even, even bigger. Got all these companies, stay away from these companies. So, custom. Range. I haven't done this custom before, but seven to 50.

Unknown Speaker  15:09
So now we have a list of 268

Speaker 2  15:12
plumbing companies that have employees between seven and 50 and so the other thing about Apollo two is like the more, I guess little filters you can add in is going to add in more. So if I put in plumbing services here, just a little quick tip, put plumbing services, there's gonna be other names for plumbing services, just like how, if we go under people, there's an owner, a president, a founder. So if there was only owner was right here, instead of 200 listings, it might only have 50. But because I put in President, founder, General Manager, it builds the list even more. So if you do use this, you can add in more filter criteria to build that list a little more. So it's not so narrow. So there's just other names, Managing Partner, Vice President, other things to add into the filter, just keep building that list. Just a quick tip, what's on my head?

Speaker 1  16:13
Can you do specifics about the owner themselves? Like if I wanted a list of female flower shop owners in Kansas City, Missouri that are over 60 years old. Where we get we narrow it down to baby boomers in any way, right?

Speaker 2  16:33
I did try doing that last week, doing a filter. It doesn't do like it doesn't do the gender. And then I couldn't find the year, the I wanted to find, like a year established option on here, and between me and the AI, the AI was, like, they must have taken that filter away, or something that. But at one point, and maybe there still is, and I haven't found it, but there used to be, or still is, a filter to find when the business was established. So maybe that could be a, you know, it doesn't determine the owner's age, but it could say how long the business has been around. I haven't found that filter yet, but between me and the AI, we both couldn't do it. So I

Unknown Speaker  17:26
know, I think if you want to filter and find out the

Unknown Speaker  17:33
like demographics,

Speaker 3  17:35
we can export this data from Apollo and upload it to like Facebook, or basically create like a look alike audience, and then run like a just like testing purpose here, like run ad and just to see like, who will click it, and usually Facebook will tell you, like, What's the age group and demographics?

Speaker 2  18:00
Yeah, that'd be interesting. I haven't tried that yet, so I did have that thought to, like, say, like, you know, run ads, because I'm also doing, like, loan broker stuff, like, until my credit score goes up. So that's one of my side projects I've been working on. So but I did have the thought of, like, taking the whole email list, putting it into into Facebook to run ads, but then I haven't done that yet, but my other thought would be like, what if, like, the business owner has a personal email they signed up to Facebook with, and now they have, but they have a business email, and it's two different emails. So that'd be my only that'd be a hiccup if that was a major pattern, but, um, but, yeah, it'd be a good idea, though. I did think about doing that. But if your list is big enough, you have 2000 4000 emails. I mean, even if 10% of the business owners are using the same email for Facebook, then, I mean, you got a list of 400 people.

Speaker 1  19:04
So what's your process? Say, say you found one of these, like, I don't know, warm NC, or something like, and you're like, Okay, I want this one. I want to send them an email. What's your process after that?

Speaker 2  19:18
Well, right now I got, I I now have an assistant that's doing all this stuff for me. Because, like, I do Instacart 24 hours a day. So like, I have it, I have a I'm an assistant that I'm paying. That's that, I mean, I'm paying for everything. I'm paying for all of the Apollo I'm paying for, instantly, whatever tools that we need, I'm paying for it, and then I'm just letting her run with it, and so I'm like, Hey, here's the list. Go into instantly AI, I write the email bodies, and so I hand everything off to her, so I couldn't tell you how she sets up the emails using instantly AI, which is another. Or the instantly AI. If anyone doesn't know it's an email sender like MailChimp or or instant contact, or whatever those other email senders are, but supposedly this one, I've seen demos of it working, but it'll it uses AI to make all the emails a little bit more personal or more authentic, so you're not sending the same email 500 times, but it actually kind of changes the email for you, so it's a little more authentic, a little more personal sometimes. So So yeah, we're using instantly AI for that. So I basically, so I do all the fun stuff. I guess I don't know, I don't know tech stuff. Like to make a domain and direct it to a DNS. I don't, I don't want nobody that stuff. I don't know any of that stuff, so I just have her do it. And so she's really quick about it. So if anybody wants her, she's really cheap. I pay her 250 bucks a month to do to all this stuff. So she's built me a website. She hooks up, she's hooked up the email campaign, and like, you know, we're we're running into all the bumps in the road ourselves. So if you want, I don't, you can come back a month later and ask it. But right now, our bumps in the road were that we started sending the email campaigns like last week, and then the email campaigns started shutting off after like five emails started bouncing back. So at a 5% bounce back rate, like, I guess that means, like the email wasn't working, like the campaign itself shut off. And so that was like one hiccup that we had to deal with, and then the other hiccup, which just happened this week, that we realized also was that even though I have the email verified right here, like, we sent all the emails through another verification software, and it said, like, like, it was like, out of 1000 it was like six or 700 Were were good. So it was like, I don't know, this is just another, I mean, so I'm not going to say anything about, I don't know all the details of what's really going on. So, like, so we sent out with using Apollo, we went straight to, instantly, a AI started sending emails, and then after 100 emails got sent, five came back saying that they were not good. So then we took the list again. We stopped campaigns, took that list, went through another email verification software. I don't know. I forgot what it's called. I'm not gonna look it up. Waste your time, but we sent it through another verification. It said only 70% were good. So I mean, using instantly ai 5% were bad. Now this other software says 30% are not good. So not really accurate on all those numbers, but So those are the bumps we've come through so far. So we're just basically using the clean list. We restarted the campaign today, so we haven't had any issues yet. So, I mean, I'm the guinea pig, so not a problem, but, but, yeah, we're just kind of going through all the bumps in the road, and hopefully, you know, within a couple weeks, we'll be sending 4000 well, they're good 4000 emails a month. So 3000 emails a month. There we go.

Speaker 1  23:25
So is the idea that so your email is structured in a way that you're saying, Hey, if you're interested in selling, you know, like, what's, what's the focus there on the email? Are you trying to get leads of interested sellers and get their information so you can reach out to them personally and, like, give them a phone call, like, what's the what's the end game there? Right?

Speaker 2  23:46
Okay, so the first wave of emails I'm sending is for the loan broker, stuff that I was getting into, where, basically, if I can find a business owner that wants or needs a loan, like, I'll hook them up the loan and basically, like, the Finder person and I get a percentage of that. So that's what that this first campaign is all about. I just completed the JT Fox mergers and acquisition eight week program, so I wanted to get through that, see what it says. And everything that they talked about in the program is just exactly what you talk about. Shane, so there's really nothing that you know, it's just, I heard everything another time through another voice. So, I mean, I paid for that program, but I don't have no problem paying for education. But for everyone that's in this program right now, everything that you know JT Fox is almost a billionaire. He's a, you know, he's a coach also. But everything that's in this JT Fox program that I paid for. I paid $1,000 for it, everything. And that Shane talks about is exactly what they talked about this program. So, I mean, a week, right there, Joe, Yeah, seriously, no joke. And so I don't know if anybody know who's JT Fox is, but he's a big business guy. And yeah, I paid, you know, I'm. Like I said, I have no problem paying for education and paying for tools. So I paid 1000 bucks for this eight week program just to learn about, you know, P and L statements, like how to write an LOI and and everything that Shane's been talking about for the past three months. Like, it's like hearing it a second time through, like another head. It's just the same exact thing. You didn't miss a thing. The only thing I did learn different and the JT Fox was he did talk about something called a cashless, a cashless merger, and so, but that was other than that. There was nothing else that JT said that Shane hasn't said already. So it's, it's all, I'm all on point, for sure. So you can save yourself $1,000 but it's still, you know, but the JT Fox thing too, was also the good opening for that was like, this is for me, because, like, my credit score doesn't go up. Like, being a part of that mergers and acquisition, course, is like, if you actually find a business that's good and that's worth buying, like, he'll partner with you and buy it if he likes it. So that was kind of like my, my end in case my credit score doesn't go up, which I'm still working on. So that was the purpose of that option. But, yeah, but everything JT Fox says, everything that Shane says JT Fox, they all teach the same exact thing. So, so yeah, just to keep hammering that in. So, um, but, but, yeah. So the next wave of emails is going to be more about selling businesses. So I just want to see what JT Fox is going to say. Like, how does he want to position it? Because he doesn't want me to use he doesn't want his students to use his name improperly, or, like, mention his name in a certain way. So it might, you know, he says you want to sound professional. You don't want to sound like he came off the street and so or whatever so. So I basically just waited to his program was over. But, you know, but anyways, but yeah. So the next wave of emails will be for business owners that you know, see if they want to sell, and just kind of get them on board. So, yeah, so that'll be my next wave. I'll show you how that one goes. And then I'm using, you know, chat GBT, just like everybody else, to write my emails for me, and it comes off clean and professional and stuff like that. So I, you know, all you know, how the that wave of emails goes.

Speaker 1  27:16
So for instantly, how much does instantly cost? Like, what? How? What's the structure of that?

Speaker 2  27:23
Okay, so instantly, if I remember, it's like $79 to send 25,000 emails. And so let's go here really fast.

Unknown Speaker  27:37
If anyone hears a dog that's a dog

Speaker 2  27:40
in the background, okay, let's see here. So I think, where am I? I know I'm paying somewhere around $80 so it might be, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  27:51
I hear you. This is probably I'm on the 5000

Unknown Speaker  27:55
credits. Let's see what this is all about.

Speaker 2  27:59
Stop distracting me. I'm sorry, that's my bad. There's several, several different, I'm sorry. There's several different options here. There's a CRM super search outreach. Okay, this is the email sender. Okay, got it monthly. Okay, so for $97 that's what I have, you can send out 100,000 emails a month. So that's a great deal.

Speaker 1  28:21
So for less than 200 bucks, you're able to get like, 4000 emails, yeah, and send them with, you know, with AI to central business owners, you know, in whatever state, whatever city, whatever type of business that you're looking for, like, narrow it down to a very particular Buy Box and, you know, whatever it is, I mean, it's pretty cool because, I mean, it's a lot faster than knocking on doors and just cold calling people and that kind of stuff. So that's really cool, especially, you know you're not even, you're not spending your time doing it. You're you got a VA that's yeah, doing all that for you. So, yeah, I would be very interested to see what you get from that. Like my, my experience with these email platforms is you don't get a lot of for one thing, a lot of them go to the spam folder. That's, you know, that's a big problem. There's a lot of like, what is it? MailChimp? You have to jump through a whole bunch of hoops, and they'll block you. That happens quite a bit, but so if instantly doesn't do that and you're able to just kind of blanket these emails out, I would imagine that it would be a numbers game that eventually somebody that is ready to sell possibly might nibble, you know, you might get a bite on that line that you throw out. So that's pretty cool.

Speaker 2  29:59
Yeah. Yeah, right, exactly. And so, um, yeah, with this plan, 25,000 uploaded contacts, so, and then 100,000 emails monthly. So you can send each person one email a week. If you have a list of 25,000 you have a list of 25,000 people, you're going to get someone, you're going to get someone to say yes, even on your worst day. So, I mean, that's a lot of people out there and so, but yeah, like you said, under $200 you can send, build your list, get your buy box, and then have your VA, send these emails out there for you. So it's, it's been pretty cool. Oh, yeah. So yeah, going back to what you just said, though about, you know, if it goes to spam or whatever. So the thing about instantly is that there's a there's a three week warm up period. So once you have your email addresses, like, like, all set up, you have to wait three weeks for it to warm up. So I think that's part of the reason why the deliverability is a bit more better. And so this not just gonna, it's not just gonna get to a spam folder. And so even though we've only sent a few emails already, I've gotten a couple responses. But the responses are just like, hey, not interested, you know. So I know the emails are sending and landing, but we just started. But just to reiterate, yeah, for instantly you when you hook up your email addresses, and we and right now this, the other thing too, is like for when you're when you first start sending your emails, you can safely send 30 emails per email address. And so right now, I had my VA, we're using her recommend data recommendations for like a domain name, and under that domain name we get almost, I think it's like, unlimited email addresses. And so right now we have 300 email addresses, and instantly, AI, so we're only using like 10 right now to send 30 a day per address. That's 300 emails. So, but yeah, it takes three weeks to warm up, and then you can safely send 30 emails a day per email address. And then as time goes on, you can send more and more. So I think that's that what that's what makes insulin more more powerful when it comes to getting those emails in people's inboxes. So it's a little more, little more tech involved. But, I mean, setting up. I mean, my VA was able, she said it was just click and drop just 300 email addresses. It wasn't, you know, she wasn't on the computer all day long doing it. So, I mean, she's, she's a tech Wiz, and so that's what, that's why I let her work with me. So it's like, go for it. It's like, so, but yeah, so basically, AI is good so far and then, but I don't mind being anyone's the guinea pig of the group, and just like sharing you the experience. But you said $200 a month, 4000 emails a month, 25,000 contacts, and instantly, ai 100,000 emails, 200 bucks a month. So I mean the next wave of emails, but you know, you know, with everything's going good, and we're as we hit those little speed bumps, we correct it and get better. And so I keep you updated on it all. But yeah, Apollo is really cool, and instantly AI has been highly recommended, recommendations, whatever. So anyways, yeah, appreciate that. Yeah, thanks.

Speaker 1  33:23
Yeah, that's cool. It's a numbers game. Yeah, you know it's the more, the more deals you look at, the more business owners you reach out to, the greater your chances are of success. So makes sense.

Speaker 2  33:36
And so, yeah, but I know even nesty was talking about reaching out to business owners. So, I mean, you know he's doing, he's sending emails out there, and he's gotten, he's getting some responses too. But you know, you gotta think about it like, you know, if you send it an email with within a subject, you know, that says, like that, hey, when I sell your business or whatever, like, that's intriguing. You know. You know, instead of, like, trying to sell a loan right now, you got to find the right person. But anyways, you send something and say, hey, I'm interested in buying your business. And, like, it's a real email. It's not like, you know, an advertisement, you know, actual, real even if you do send it as a mass email sender, it's still going to be, you know, intriguing enough and have some, you know, originality to be like, Yeah, I want to, I'm interested. Yeah, I want to sell, you know, get the right business owners and respond,

Unknown Speaker  34:27
yeah, absolutely. Okay.

Speaker 1  34:31
Well, thank you, Joe. I appreciate it. Does anybody have any questions about the process or Apollo or instantly, or just kind of the goal, or anything,

Speaker 3  34:44
Joe, I have a question. So the you looks like you can also do the mass email campaign within the Apollo itself, right?

Unknown Speaker  34:55
Yeah, I did notice that too.

Speaker 2  34:58
The reason we're, I don't know. What the reason is. But I'm just I got, I got, like, the people who I listen to, as far as tech goes, they say, Hey, do it this way. Do it that way. So Apollo does have an email sender. That was a good catch. I'm not sure why we're not doing that, but I'm listening to people that know more than I do. So as far as tech goes, but it's worth a shot. I suppose. I think Apollo even has a CRM also, okay, but yeah, I didn't. I didn't. Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know why we're doing it this way. I think it's because instantly can AI write the emails that might be the power we're going through. Okay, thanks. Going once ice. Anybody else?

Speaker 1  35:50
Okay, cool. Well, thank you, Joe. I appreciate it. Thanks. Sharon, I always like new to stay up on new tech and new possibilities. So appreciate that. Thank.
