Speaker 1  00:03
Welcome everybody. It is Thursday, the April 24 and this is the money Language Academy. Tonight we're going to be talking about capital stacking. I want to say before we get going, that this can be risky if you don't know what you're doing and and I would also say that, you know, there are classes that we've already gone through before this that kind of explain the basics of credit, the difference between personal credit and business credit, how that's important. We're going to go over that a little bit more tonight, just to to frame this whole thing. But the idea of capital stacking is you create an LLC, which we also there's another class that that explains the you know how to create your own LLC or use a company to create it and get it created in the right way to maximize your funding potential. Because one of the biggest hurdles to getting a small business is getting that 10% down payment. So if you can find creative ways to help you with it, or even get the entire 10% it's huge. And then also it gives you working capital after you acquire the business. So you don't have to factor that working capital into the main SBA loan like it's just there if you need it with capital stacking. So capital stacking is just you have an LLC, you run it through business funding to where you get business credit cards that are zero interest for a year to 18 months, and you can liquidate those cards and use it, as long as you know how to liquidate it the right way and season that money, then you can use it for your loan. And then also you can buy anything the business needs. You can do payroll on the cards, like there's a lot of things, like, if you get in a bind, you know you can use that credit. One of the biggest reasons why small businesses fail is lack of credit, lack of funding, lack of capital. However you want to say it like you get in a bind. You need to make payroll, you need to pay suppliers, and you just don't have the money to do it. So at least it gives you options to take you over a rough patch and get you going. So So yeah, we talk about capital stacking. So some people make the mistake whether they're buying a business or starting it, they want to use personal credit. So I mean, can it be used to bootstrap a business? Yes, it is not ideal, though. You know you need to keep your personal credit, your utilization, below 30% so that means, if you have $10,000 limit on your card, you know it needs to be less than 3% that you, that you charge at one point or have have charged, so otherwise, you're going to take a hit on your credit score. And your credit score, you know, determines so much, it determines how much funding you can get. Sometimes it determines rents. I mean, it's crazy, it. It really is a pillar of our society these days the credit score. Can it be used the capital stack? Technically, you can, you can, you can capital stack, but you can't really use it. You can't use it for a loan, because the SBA or a bank will see on your personal credit report that you have these cards out and you have charged this much, you've liquidated this much, they it's just right there. It's like a scarlet letter or a backpack full of incriminating evidence that says, hey, I capital stacked. You know, I'm using credit cards to get this money. So you can, but it's not going to be helpful for you. So you wouldn't be able to use it for an SBA loan, because the SBA will look at your credit report and know exactly what you're doing, and it's not going to work out. So the difference between personal credit and business credit, obviously, you know it's one is tied to the business EIN, which is the tax number, one is tied to your personal social security number. The reporting agencies are different. Even though Experian has a business branch and so does Equifax, it's still it's two different silos of information, and the impact on you is completely different. So if you charge a bunch of stuff up on your personal credit, it's going to take a hit immediately. If you part charge a bunch of stuff on your business credit, it won't affect your personal credit at all. The only time it's affected is when you actually apply for it. They're going to do a hard inquiry, and that's it. After that, it's separate from you, unless you default on it and they want to come, you know, hit you with collections later on, obviously you're going to personally guarantee this credit. The days of being able to get non PG credit, non personally guaranteed credit cards, those days are over. I mean, unless you have an established business that's been around for years with established trade lines, even buying trade lines, you can go online and buy. Buy trade lines from these different sites, you're still not going to get much doing that, not like you would just using your personal guarantee. And the capital itself is relatively small on personal credit cards compared to business I mean, it's not unheard of for to get a business card that's $75,000 just one card. I mean, they're, they're willing to to throw more money at a business than they are to an individual, because they know there's recurring revenue. You know, you need it to get through. It's just, it's less risky in general. And obviously the legal protection that's, you know, this is an LLC so as long as you don't pierce the corporate veil, you're not going to get sued for your personal assets. And then the age of the credit, you're going to be really hindered on your personal credit to try to get a big card if you have new credit, if you know you haven't used credit very much, you don't have a national card. A lot of lot of different variables in your credit profile. Whereas with business credit, it can be completely, you know, we could start an entity today, and you can start funding it in a couple weeks. I mean, it's, it's, that's how quick it is. And you can get substantial amounts of funding as long as you know how to do it. So the key to capital stacking, that really makes it cool is that as long as you go after the cards that are 0% interest for the first year or the first 18 months, you have basically a piggy bank that you can pull money out and put right back in. All you're paying is the minimum. You're not paying any interest on that money. So you can pay the minimum and do what you need to do and pay it back. So a lot of people, especially real estate investors, are using it for fix and flips. So if you get $50,000 $75,000 in business credit cards, you can pay your contractors, you can buy materials, you can do all that, and then eight months later, all you've paid is your minimum down payment, you know, your minimum payment per month, and you pay all that money back with no interest. I mean, if you're using, you know, any kind of fix and flip loan, hard money, something like that. It's ridiculous how much that stuff cost, like the some of them are, like, 15% on hard money loans and interest only. So obviously, that can be a good avenue towards getting quick, quick funds with no interest. It's you get it fast. It's flexible. I mean, pretty much everybody takes a credit card these days. Everybody has stripe, everybody has square. It's revolving. You can use it, you can repay it, and you can use it again. But if you go past the year introductory rate or the 18 months, obviously going to have to pay some interest, but it's always going to be there. And then you can build a business credit history. So if you have a history of, say, you spend that year you're doing fix and flips, you buy a business, you pay it back. You're, you know, you're building the business and paying it back, whatever it is, then you can get truly Non, non, personally guaranteed credit through that business. But it just takes a while. You're not going to be able to get it without a business credit score to begin with, but after you've been doing it for a while, you can so if you want to capital stack, you need to optimize your personal credit first, because everything's based on your personal credit in those rounds of funding to begin with. So they're going to do a soft or hard pull on your personal credit, and they're going to require a 680 credit score. You should really be in the sevens. It's going to be better. Your credit utilization should be less than 30 no late payments, fewer than four hard inquiries in the last year, and then at least two or three open revolving accounts. So that means, you know, you've got some decent size credit limits from a national bank, hopefully, and if you have late payments, if you have hard inquiries, you know there's things you can do to remove that stuff. Our credit repair team can help you do that, but you need to have your credit profile ready to optimize your funding, because if you're not ready for it, you're going to end up getting a business credit card for like, $1,000 and once you start down that road, that's all you're going to get. So you have to be optimized first. And you know, we did a whole class on this section, which was, how do you set up an LLC the correct way to maximize your funding? So, you know, look at the DIY toolkit class. It'll explain, step by step, everything you need the the best way to do every single step. But you know, you need to make sure that your LLC is in good standing. You have to have that EIN, which is your tax number with the IRS. You have to have a business, phone, business, ad. Address and email that are legit. It's not Gmail, it's not a, you know, Google Voice, it's like, it's real stuff. And then you open a business bank account, and ideally, you can season that business bank account a little bit if you want to. So put some money in there, pull some money out, put some money in there, pull some money out. Just show some some flow in and out of capital, and then pick the right industry on your LLC. That's what this NAICS code is. So you don't want to pick something like credit repair, you know, adult industries, anything like anything with lending, or, you know, anything that was considered like high risk, you don't want to be anywhere near that, or it's going to limit your funding. So a lot of lenders will use the soft pulls and pre qualification platforms first. So like, if you, if you go out there and look, you can, you can just Google what card can, what credit card, business. Credit card can I get without a hard inquiry? And you can at least see what you're going to pre qualify for. However, if a lot of times they'll say there's no hard inquiry, it's just a soft pull, and then when you actually accept the card, then they do a hard pull. So be careful about that. You might actually harm your credit before, before you even get started, but at least give you an idea, because they're going to look at your personal credit profile, and it'll give you an idea of what that first card is going to be, how much credit you're going to get, what your credit limit is going to be on that that first card. So those ones that are, you know, soft pulls, these are pretty good, right here. So I mean, you can get on the chase. Inc, that's one of the premier cards. You can get $50,000 if you have seasoned personal credit and a properly structured LLC. It's, I mean, it's fairly common, but they're constantly changing. So just just be aware of that. Like Chase and Bank of America are always competing for who's the best business lender, who has the best cards. So you have to stay up on it. It's almost like, like dealing with the stock market. You know you have to, you have to stay in it and keep up with what's going on, otherwise you can miss opportunities. So I put a link on here, on this, on this PDF, and I'll put this in the class to get to that credit card list. So let me pull this in real fast. So this is tons and tons of cards, right? How many hundreds of cards in here?

Unknown Speaker  12:40
Five? Over 500

Speaker 1  12:43
all over the US. The link where you can apply for them, where they're eligible, you know, because some of them are only Missouri, only Oklahoma, whatever, and then which Bureau they pull from. So the ones that say down in Bradstreet, you're probably not going to be able to use those, because you have to have business credit to get them. But the ones that are Trans Union, Equifax, Experian, those are viable cards. Okay, so it even, it even has who the underwriter is. I mean this, this pretty much gives you everything you need to know, just to see, like, Okay, I'm thinking about going after, I don't know, like, Bank of America. Where do they report to? Okay, they report to both Experian and TransUnion. That's helpful to know, and I'll explain why here in a second. So let's say, let's pick

Unknown Speaker  13:46
something that's larger.

Speaker 1  13:52
Okay, so citizens, citizens is nationwide Equifax. Okay, so remember that citizens and Equifax, we'll come back to that here in a minute. Here's the process, and here's what people that do it will not tell you on Tiktok, they will not tell you on Instagram, they will not tell you on any of these, these platforms, because they want you to pay them before they'll explain their process. But this is what they're all doing. I don't care if it's true Finco. I don't care if it is, oh, what's the other one? That's pretty good biz funding now, or something like that. But they don't want you to know that it's possible for you to do it on your own. But it is, however, like I said, Be careful. The process is so you know that citizens uses Equifax, right? We just talked about that. So what, what you would do is you would find three other, two to three other cards that are good, viable business, credit cards that you, you know, give you high limits. And you would research the cards first and know that, okay, these are good, like chasing, I know it's a good one. American Express blue. Do? I know it's a good one. I know they give high limits. They've got perks. They got that 0% intro for 12 to 18 months. All those things that you're looking for. And you find the ones that are all Equifax, and you link them together. Say, Okay, these are the three I'm going to go for tonight. And you freeze your other two bureaus. So these are Equifax. You're going to freeze TransUnion and you're going to freeze Experian. You can just go on the apps and you can say, okay, freeze my report. Freeze my report. So what it means is, when you apply for those three tonight, you're you're going to get three hard inquiries on your personal credit but only on that Equifax Credit Bureau, okay? And then the next night, you're going to find three cards that report to another Bureau, and you're going to freeze the ones that it doesn't report to. So say you find three that report to TransUnion, then you're going to freeze Experian and Equifax, and you're going to apply for three cards there, and you'll repeat the same thing for the third process, for the third credit union. And that means that at the end of all this, you have, if you did three you have 12 cards and three hard inquiries on your personal credit. So three hard inquiries is not a big deal. You're going to, I mean, it's going to be like less than 1010, points you're going to lose on your personal credit, and it's not going to be a red flag to lenders. Not going to be red flag to anyone. It's going to look like you went for a reasonable amount of business funding. But these business credit cards, you and I'll have 12, and it's very likely that most of them are going to be over 5000 if not, you get some big ones that are 20,000 15,000 10,000 so you're sitting on 6570, $100,000 of available zero interest credit that you can use to do whatever you need to do, whatever you're trying to invest in, whatever you're trying to grow, whatever you're trying to do, fixing flips, buying a business, whatever. So that is basically how capital stacking works, in a nutshell. Okay, so now just remember this some some considerations before you start. Is that APR, that 0% APR is only temporary, so you have a limited shelf life on those cards to have no interest that doesn't mean you could, you couldn't keep using them still, but it's not going to be as advantageous, because some of them might revert to a large interest rate. So you should really have everything done that you need to do with that credit in that 12 to 18 month period, you're still going to have to pay the minimum payment, at least on whatever you pull out.

Unknown Speaker  17:48
Yeah, some cards convert to high aprs.

Speaker 1  17:52
It requires discipline. You need to know. You need to be able to keep track of all your cards and what's going on with them, what money you pulled, what you're going to owe. Don't fall behind on it, because it'll tank your business credit. You don't want one missed payment on any of that while you're doing this, because you want to build that business credit in that year, because you will have, you know, cycled money in and out of your bank account. You would have paid vendors, you would have done all these things in that year. So at the end of this, you can get true business credit that's non personally guaranteed. So be sure that you don't go too crazy with it, and that you can't keep track of it all, and stay within the terms you know. Don't Don't overdo it, don't try to overcharge and don't like load up on one card. Stagger it over multiple cards. If you can, you don't want to draw any red flags. Some of the big mistakes are, people apply before they're ready. If you're, you know, if you have, you don't meet those criteria that I talked about earlier. You're not going to get much funding. It's going to be a waste of time. They'll use their home address for the business. And that's a red flag to one of the national banks. It's in their algorithm. If it's a regular home and residence, they know, like, Okay, this is just somebody sitting at home. You know, they're not a candidate for the big funding. If your business info is not completely, like, ironed out and concrete. You know, you have a business profile, you have your email address the way it's supposed to be, your phone numbers, like, everything has to be on point, or the algorithm is going to flag it. You're either going to get denied and still get a hard inquiry, or you're going to get a really low limit. And what's the point? If that's the case, and then a lot of people, of people just rack up big balances, and they think it's free money, and they don't have a way to pay it back. And it's not going to work. They're going to eventually, if you don't pay this, they're going to come after you personally. And some people will just apply to too many banks all at once, so they'll. Start a capital stack with like, eight cards for each bureau. Obviously, that's not going to work. I mean, that you got eight hard inquiries, which automatically puts you at a red flag status to any lender out there, any bank. Okay, so now you have say you have $100,000 in business credit. Let's just say you got 10, $10,000 cards. Now, what so you want to get cash from those cards? How are you going to be able to do that? How are you going to be able to put that cash in your bank account so that it can season for two months? So when you can try to get an SBA loan, they ask you for your last two months of bank statements. So if your last two months of bank statements shows that you have $50,000 sitting in the bank ready to deploy, but if you don't, if you don't let it sit there, it's not going to work. But how do you take the money from the cards to your bank account or wherever you need it to go? So there are some companies that you can do it for. Do it with plastic melio is another one. These links are actually hot in here. You can, you can go to them, but it allows you to just pay, pay vendors with a credit card, vendors that don't necessarily accept credit cards. So it comes out in the form of cash or a check. So you you essentially paying yourself with that that company. But it's kind of expensive. It's fully safe, but kind of expensive. What I recommend, and what everybody has access to in the community is there's an attorney. He sets up an escrow fund, an escrow account, and then he runs the cards through that escrow, and then you get a check. So that is safe, easy. He's been doing it for a long time. His information is in the community documents. You can reach out to him and and liquidate those cards. Another thing you can do is E commerce to yourself. And what I mean by that is you can start a like a stand store. You can sell something, something digital, a PDF or something, and just go buy 100 of those things, whatever I mean. So basically Stan or stripe or whatever stands using behind the scenes is liquidating your cards for you. It's not as safe. It can get red flags. You can get blackballed from places like, you know, websites like Stan, they can report that to the credit, but so you have to be careful. I don't think that's a very safe one. You can also buy things and resell them again. That doesn't seem very, I don't know, very reasonable, because what if you can't sell it? So, so for me, it's, it's, it's either plastic or the attorney. Are the safest ways to go. So remember that it's not as simple as just picking a few cards and and going out there and applying for them and then, you know, rotating that a few times, there's you have to do the research on the cards. You have to make sure verify that the information that you have about that card is true, you have to have a plan, an exit strategy for if you do liquidate those cards, how are you going to pay it back? If you're going to use it for an SBA loan or traditional bank loan as a down payment, you need to account for the months. You know, because you have to have two months of bank statements. So it's really it's over two months, probably going to have three payments on those cards after you liquidate it. So you liquidate it, you put put it in the bank, and you want two full months for it to be there. And every bank has a different cycle on how they report their statements. Maybe it's the first of the month, maybe it's the last day of the month, maybe it's in the middle of the month. It just depends on the bank. So do that research first, and generally you're going to want to have your investment ready. So if you want to buy a business, you need to have two or three queued up that are good options so you can go get because you only have that year or 18 months with those cards. So if that is your plan, you don't want to get all those cards right now and then not have any way to use them, it would have been all for nothing. So you get $100,000 in credit. You don't have anything to use it on, and you spend a year looking for a business. It was wasted, was wasted effort, right? But, yeah, I mean, that's, that's how it works. Everybody acts like it's this secret organization and this this really covert thing, but it's just people who figured out how business credit works. They figured out that you can go late at night and apply for these cards, and once you find the exact. Formula to maximize the funding. And you're not dealing with a person, you're dealing with an algorithm. You can just do it over and over and over again. So these funding companies have have figured that out, you know, and they, you know, they take dings every now and then when it changes, but they have figured out how to maximize that process, and they just do the same thing for everybody that they get funding for. But some are a lot better than others.

Unknown Speaker  25:28
Nesty is really good. I mean, he got himself $250,000

Speaker 1  25:32
in business credit. That is a that's unheard of. So that's who we partner with in the community. But, but, yeah, if, if you're a DIY person and you want to do it yourself, you can totally do it.

Unknown Speaker  25:48
There you go. That's the sauce. Nice.

Speaker 1  25:52
Anybody have any questions about the process or

Unknown Speaker  25:57
just just how it works, any anything?

Speaker 2  26:00
Um, I think. And one of the videos you mentioned

Unknown Speaker  26:05
that we could remove inquiries.

Speaker 3  26:09
How do we how do we do that? I haven't gotten to that part yet.

Speaker 1  26:12
So, yeah, there's actually, so there's a few ways you can do it. Used to be. There's a document in the community that where you just kind of claim that it wasn't you, and you go through this whole process. I'm pretty sure that still works, but now what people are doing is there's specific forms that you can fill out and and send that off saying that you weren't, you didn't. It's essentially like it was violating your rights or you didn't authorize it. I'll have to dig those, form numbers up. But you can, you can Google that that information is all over the place. It was really secretive at first, and now it's just, it's blown up. It's everywhere, to get rid of those hard inquiries. But the the tried and true method is the old school way. It just takes a little bit longer. Now, Nest is doing something that's a little bit different. I don't even know how. So one of the cool things with with what nesty is doing is, when he does the capital stacking for people, he is removing those PERS. So you get three, say, you get three cards tonight on Equifax, He's removing those inquiries before they even hit the Equifax reporting. So the next, like, within 48 hours, it's like, you didn't even do it. So it's, yeah, it's even, it's even better. And I'm not even sure how he's doing it necessarily, but he showed, he showed me on his and on his credit profile. And I was like, how, how'd you do that? And that's, I don't know that's his secret. I guess he doesn't want it out. I get it because it's, it's pretty impressive. Um, so the way he's doing is you can get 12 cards and you don't have any bar inquiries,

Speaker 4  27:45
wow, like you, seems like you, he could be able to repeat that same thing in multiple bureaus after you've gotten the three and they're removed. So you could probably get, well more than, you know,

Unknown Speaker  27:59
10 or 12 well. And it's probably how we got 250,000

Speaker 4  28:02
let's just mess with my first thought. I'm like, if he's removed before it hits, then you just go back and do three other ones from the same Bureau, and they don't know,

Speaker 1  28:10
yeah, yeah. I mean, you just, you just switch banks, you know? And there's so many, like, there's a post in the community too that I talk about some of the, some of the reporting agencies and how I think it's federal, like the Navy, federal Navy, FNC, I think it is where you can actually apply for one one time and get three cards through them. The same hard inquiry, you can get three separate cards. So you can do something like that, and you're already getting three for one. So there's so many different ways to do this. And I mean, you saw that list, that's that's just a smattering of what's actually available out there. I do know this. I know when I, every time that I've gone for business credit, like to a local bank, it hasn't been great, like, unless you, unless you know the people there, and you've been working with that, with those people, they'll throw money at you. But if you come in off the street and it's a regular like local chain, you're not likely to get very much funding. Especially on a fresh LLC, they're going to give you, like, one 2000 that's it, and that's not really helping anybody. You know that they're giving you an introductory card to start your business credit profile with them to see if maybe a year from now, they want to give you a business loan or a line of credit or something like that. But the national banks can afford to fund startups, you know, Capital One Bank of America Chase and then just, you know, directly to American Express. American Express is one of the best business cards out there. They they give you a lot of money, like people say, they give you the bag. They do. They give you a lot. However, their best cards with the highest limits usually have, like an annual fee. That's like 200 bucks. Or 250, sometimes 350, so, you know, there is that cost, but, but, yeah, I mean, I've seen some that are $100,000 limit, you know, business credit. And people that have been doing this for a while, they get rid of their personal credit cards. They just, they put them in a, you know, in a bag, and throw them in the closet, and they stop using them. They use business credit because it never affects your personal credit. So I

Speaker 5  30:27
actually got a question, that same LLC that we use to capital stack, could that, could that same LLC be used to acquire a business?

Speaker 1  30:39
Oh, yeah, yeah. And ideally, that's what you want to do, you know, if you, if you make it generic enough to where it's like consulting or something like that, you know, it can, it can actually own anything. So, so it, but it depends on how you're going to buy the business. So if you're going to do a stock sale, then it's a little bit more difficult, which is a stock sale, is I'm going to assume ownership of that business. So if it's, if it's Wally's tuxedo Emporium, and I come in there to buy it, and I have two choices. I can say, Okay, I'm just gonna, I'm gonna have that LLC or C Corp, or whatever, transferred to my name. An attorney will fill out that paperwork. You'll file it with a state, you'll transfer ownership to me. That's stock sale. An asset sale is I come in with my own LLC, which could be this funding LLC. I come in and I say, Okay, here's all the assets that are in the business, including the name, including the goodwill that's in, you know, Goodwill is, is a term used in business that's like the reputation of the business. It's, you know, the tenure of it, how long it's been around. And you put all of that in your purchase agreement, and then all of that stuff your LLC owns, and then you do business as Wally's tuxedo Emporium. So legally, it's different, and everything resets. But as far as the public knows, as far as anybody on the outside knows, it's still still Wally's tuxedo Emporium. But your business credit resets, your liability also resets. So you're not taking on the risk with an asset sale. When you buy it as an asset sale, it's like there's a hard border right there that says, Okay, anything that happened before I bought it doesn't concern me. But with a stock sale, someone could have had an active lawsuit on something that happened a week before you bought it, and then you're on the hook for that lawsuit. So there's a lot of things to consider with how you buy it. But so if it's a an asset sale, yeah, you can now. You can also use your LLC as possibly a holding company for whatever you buy. But it would, it's a little bit trickier, and it depends on the state regulations. You know, some some states don't, don't allow for an LLC to own another LLC. They want a different kind of entity, so it just depends, but yeah, you can for sure

Unknown Speaker  33:10
that answer your question.

Unknown Speaker  33:13
Yeah, thank you. Yeah, no problem. What's up?

Speaker 6  33:19
Bernie, thank you, Shane, for all this information. Here, quick question on that spreadsheet, can you please explain what's the double dip column is?

Speaker 1  33:32
Oh, like you can go back. So double dip is, say you have that card for three months and you can go back and request a raise in your credit limit. And as long as you haven't been doing anything you haven't like, charged it way up or done something crazy, like a lot of times, they'll bump it up by 2530, sometimes 50% one time I had a card that was, like, 6000 and I was like, You know what? I'll just ask, and they bumped it up to 25 Wow. Okay, now, and with no hard inquiry, no nothing, they just looked at the usage, and we're like, okay, you know, it's not risky. They haven't, you know, I didn't buy everything I could with it. It was just, you know, responsible use, and bumped it right up to 25 so that's, yeah, that's the double dip.

Unknown Speaker  34:26
Got it? Thanks.

Speaker 1  34:28
I and some of them, well, that actually might also refer to if more than one card in the same place, too, like that, where I was talking about the Navy Federal but I'm pretty sure that's what it is like. You know, this isn't my spreadsheet. I didn't, I didn't make it. I just got it from somebody.

Unknown Speaker  34:44
So that's, that's what I assumed it was.

Speaker 6  34:51
And you mentioned like, if you freeze like, two bureaus and have like, let's say Equifax. Is, do you like, I'm seeing that it's like underwriter a column, right? But that means you have to hit like, different underwriters, right? Not like three at the same time, right?

Speaker 1  35:12
Yeah, yeah. And I don't think it really matters, because if you're doing it late at night, on that the algorithm, which is what you want. You don't want anybody, like a regular person, to say, well, I don't know. We're not going to do it. You want a sure thing. You want to you want to know that if I put this recipe in, I'm going to get maximal funding. So you don't want anybody to be like, at it, you know, capricious to where they're going to be like, No, not. Not this one. This one feels weird or something like that. Yeah, yeah. So it shouldn't really matter late at night, but it can't hurt.

Unknown Speaker  35:50
Okay, thank you.

Speaker 1  35:53
It's been a long time since I did this. It's been it's been a couple of years, and I know things have changed, so I am when I did it, I did it. I did it the wrong way. I did I did my personal credit was not where it should have been, and I didn't get the funding I should have got. I got 30,000 when I did it. Yeah, but I mean, it's 30,000 to begin with. But now, now I know better. I feel like I could probably get 75 pretty easily, but I can't get nesty numbers.

Unknown Speaker  36:23
I gotta keep prying information out of them.

Speaker 5  36:26
Do you, I don't know their question. Do you know what the fees are for? Was his name, nesty to Is he the one that would be doing it for us if we decided to go that route? Yeah.

Speaker 1  36:38
So he does, he does credit repair, and he does the capital, the capital stacking business funding. So for credit repair, it's 501 time fee, and he'll see it through all the way to the end. If it takes him a year, then that's how long it takes where, a lot of other places, it's like 150 to 200 a month. And then they'll stretch you out six, 810, months. They're in no hurry to fix it, because they're getting a monthly fee and for the capital stacking, most companies are 10,000 or excuse me, 10% of whatever you get. He's guaranteed see maximum nine. But it depends on how hard it is for him to do it. So depending on, like, say, if you come in and you ask for like, I really need $120,000 in business credit. Okay, that's going to be more difficult, depending on your credit profile, than if you go in and say, I just need 60,000 you know, it's a lot more. So it's related to that. So he will quote you a price you get, you get a free consult with him, and he'll look at your credit profile, and then he'll let you know. But we've negotiated at least a full point lower than everybody else out there. So that means, if you get, you get $100,000 in business credit, and it's 9% it's $9,000 so

Speaker 4  37:58
even if you don't use this, this money, so say, you know, you want to have it as a as a resource, basically, he gets 250,000 you're paying that 9% on the 250 even if you go buy a million dollar business for 100k

Speaker 1  38:14
Yes, okay, yeah, yeah, because it's about the, it's about the credit limit. That's, that's the magic number,

Speaker 2  38:21
yeah, so nesty is an individual. What you're saying?

Speaker 1  38:24
No, that's just, that's he owns the company, okay, I always get the name wrong.

Speaker 2  38:29
It's biz credit repair and capital setting right?

Speaker 1  38:34
Yes, yeah. Biz funding, accelerator, and he charges more. Unless you come from the if you come straight from the community, like, if it's something that you're looking into, I can send him your name and he'll be ready. And no, because this is how we were able to negotiate prices that are lower, is because I'm like, Well, we're going to have, you know, 2030 people, and you know, you're going to have to give everybody a deal. Otherwise, you know, we'll go somewhere else the

Unknown Speaker  39:01
you know, we ran a cartel number on them. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  39:05
it seems like the dilemma would be the all the timing

Speaker 4  39:09
with all this, because you're saying, Hey, you want to have two or three that are kind of lined up in terms of what you may want to acquire in terms of businesses. However, you know me, personally, I know I'm not going to be looking for anything over a million dollar, a million dollar business, but at the same time, I'm looking at maybe, like 350, to the million, because, you know, it's more likely that you get approved by the SBA. So it's just, that's the that's the tricky piece of it, because you're saying, Okay, I've done all the LLC stuff formed. All that credit score is already in the seven, mid, seven hundreds.

Unknown Speaker  39:42
And now, though you're saying,

Speaker 4  39:48
get the get the basically capital stack, if you don't have the 10% to get a sum of money to start seasoning this account, the business account, for about two to three months, and then you're still. Worrying about this 12 to 18 months, so you're not getting hit on, I guess the interest, yeah, you're not wasting that grace period basically,

Speaker 1  40:09
yeah, you know, it's a, it's kind of a, I don't know, it's a juggling act for sure, it just depends on, on, you know, where you're at financially. You know, a lot of people aren't going to need a lot of additional funding. Some people might just need the working capital afterward. Like, say, you find a good deal and you're like, Okay, I have enough to actually land this deal on my own, but it's really gonna gonna put me, you know, low financially. Like, personally, with your finances. You could then once you you get in due diligence, you're like, Okay, it's purchase agreement time. Then you can go for rounds of funding, you know, you can say, Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do it. And the cool thing about Nestle is he'll take those personal, hard inquiries off. So the SBA lender, you know, usually when you like, people do this all the time. They're going to go out there and they're going to, they'll get a house under contract, and then, like an idiot, they'll go buy a car, and it messes up the underwriting. You know, I mean, it happens so all the time, I'm sure anything can can attest to that. Like, people do that dumb stuff all the time because they just don't think about it, whereas this, because those personal inquiries wouldn't be on there, you can still do that so, but it just depends on what you need. You know, if you, if you're struggling with a down payment, this, this is, it's kind of a hack, but it comes with risk. It does. You're just

Speaker 4  41:36
gambling a little bit because you're saying, hey, get the get the ammunition. Basically, with respect to the the funding to capital stack, and then season this account, and then you're just on the clock, basically. And if you don't, then,

Speaker 1  41:50
you know, a year a year, you should be able to find something in a year. But I'm just, I just think that for me, I like to play it as safe and as as calculated as possible. So I would want to have at least a few of them lined up, just in case, and then still, still look like you can put you can be under, you can have loi, you know, be under due diligence on multiple businesses at once. There's no nothing saying, because you're not, you're not on the hook to buy that business. At any point, you can say, Nope, it doesn't feel right. I'm out. It's almost like the the period before you get your inspection on, if you're going to buy a house, like you can pretty much back out for anything you want to in that inspection period. Loi is the same thing once you get to the purchase a signed purchase agreement. You know that's different. But you have, you know, 90 to 180 days to slow roll that as long as you need to to seizing your money, to do what you need to do, that's what

Speaker 4  42:47
I was going to ask in terms of the buyer. I mean, the seller side. You know, what's there? Why would they wait? You know, if they get somebody else that's that's interested in it too, does the LOI itself just say, hey, freeze it. Nobody else is going to talk to this guy. And I can slow play this person for 90 for 90 days.

Speaker 1  43:04
Yeah, no, no. They can just, they can back out too. They can say, well, we don't think you're serious, so you just got to have, it's a dance, you know? And if they're in a real hurry to sell, it's probably not going to be a good situation. But if it's so, I've been under loi on the auto repair shop now for Sheesh, well over three months, because they're so slow with giving me the documents, this would have been a perfect opportunity. I could have gotten all kinds of funding, had it seasoned, ready to go if I wanted to. And it has. It hasn't been this real crunch for time, but others, they're like, Well, we, you know, you've got 30 days.

Speaker 4  43:42
Yeah, I've seen someone do something. I've seen some on biz, buy, sell, or be interested in how you save them, or whatever. And then, you know, within a month, they're delisting them, taking them off the market. So I'm like, Okay, what's the, what's the likelihood of a and like, what you say, you may, you may not know it was like, they may just be so desperate to sell that they say, Hey, screw it. You know, where I'm not gonna be able to get rid of it, like I thought, and when I put it out there, who knows, but just from the ones that I've been interested in, it's like, okay, I'm not, no, I'm not understanding how long this sales cycle is, basically. And the ones that have piqued my interest, they have taken themselves out of the market within about a month.

Unknown Speaker  44:18
Yeah, yeah. It's a feeding frenzy.

Speaker 1  44:23
Yep, this SBA. If they do make these changes, you're gonna see a lot of people not in the market anymore because of the SBA changes. If they happen. So it's almost it's bittersweet, because it'll help in some ways, because people that aren't real serious, that are kind of muddying the waters for people who are ready to take action. They won't be in there anymore.

Speaker 3  44:48
Anthony, yeah, I wasn't sure where I didn't want to interrupt was this, were you all finished up here?

Speaker 1  44:56
Or, yeah, unless anybody has any questions about. So capital stacking, that process, the credit stuff that we just talked about,

Speaker 7  45:04
I was going to ask a question. I do have something else to add as well. So I'm using nest T for my credit repair and credit stacking. I signed up with him, I don't know, three weeks ago. I did try to do this half baked, like two years ago, and it didn't work. So I'm using nesty. I don't care. So, I mean, I got three, I got two cards at $3,000 so, I mean, use nesty.

Speaker 1  45:27
Yeah, if you don't mind, Joe, can you explain what you did two years ago,

Speaker 7  45:32
I read some books on credit stacking, you know, like just everyone else is talking about, and then I got the gist of it, you know, go, go to the major banks first, and go bring your LLC to them and just say, Hey, I got a 700 credit score. And, you know, just did that. And just total flop. You know, it wasn't good at all. You know, it's just like, and then, like, I went to got I went to chase, they gave me $3,000 and then I went to Bank of America, who I've had for over 13 years. They didn't give me anything. And then I tried, I couldn't find the US Bank. I ended up going to like, some Amaris Bank, which I don't even think is a national bank. Maybe it is. Maybe it's not Amaris. They gave me $3,000 I ended up like, just getting a bunch of hard inquiries and getting their two credit cards. So not not doing it myself, so, but what nesty did say, though, when I was signing up with him, so my credit score is already around 700 we're going to aim for a little bit higher, like 720 or whatever. But he was saying, like, something that didn't get say yet get said yet was that, you know, he thinks that to get $80,000 would be easy. You know, that's almost in the bag, he said. But you know, you got to also account for that. You need to have X amount for your your business lawyer, X amount for your accountant. So it says, expect to get 80,000 but then have 60,000 to spend. And so like the extra 20,000 is kind of like for your extra spending. So I mean,

Speaker 1  47:07
yeah, I think that's great advice, because so my my CPA charges $200 an hour. My lawyer charges 350 to 400 an hour. So those hours add up. You give them all the financials, the CPA, it's going to end up being, you know, 1500 bucks somewhere around in there, just to have, you know, but, but you already, you've already vetted them all the way through, and this is the last final stages. This is just to keep yourself safe at the end, so you've done all the lifting you can on your own. And then you have to hire a professional to come in to make sure. But yeah, I mean, it you have to have, it's almost like closing costs in real estate. Same thing you have, you know, this is what the loan is, this is what the down payment is. And then, you know, you get the paperwork, and they're like, Oh, yeah. But then there's also this 10,000 that you need to bring to closing, or whatever. It's just, yeah, that's how it

Speaker 7  47:58
goes, yeah. And so my question was, though, like, when we go to do this credit stacking, and before we go to these banks, the season is the seasoning start then, like, say, say, if I have $5,000 Do I go put 500 bucks in 12 different banks, and then that I plan on getting credit stacking from?

Speaker 1  48:19
Or, Oh, no, no. So there's two different seasonings I'm talking so a lot of people will, will season a bank account at a specific so if, say, Bank of America, or it was a Bank of America wouldn't give you

Unknown Speaker  48:31
any No, they would not. So neither would

Speaker 1  48:35
they're really big on like, if you have to be in their family. So if you go to Bank of America and you have a business checking account, and you put 1000 bucks in it, and you pull some money out, you put some money in, so that's seasoning before going to them. For credit, you don't have to do that for capital stacking. That's more it helps. It does help if you're going to go to them. But that's more to get a line of credit or business loan from Capital One or bank got it. That's seasoning it there with the other seasoning is, is when you take, when you liquidate the funds, you put it all into one bank account, whichever one you're going to report to the SBA is like your primary checking account or savings account or whatever, and you want that money to be there for at least 60 days, because they're always going to ask for two months of bank statements. Given the two months of base bank statements, it shows that you've had $50,000 in there for two months. That's your money. There's no they're like, Okay, they have, that's the proof of income that they needed.

Unknown Speaker  49:35
Okay, cool, awesome. Thank you.

Speaker 1  49:39
No problem. Anybody else have any questions about capital stacking before we switch to the mentorship?

Speaker 4  49:44
Shane, I was gonna say one more thing. And maybe just for clarity, many of us, I think, when we first started out, started looking at lower asking prices in terms of, you know, maybe what you feel like from a novice you can afford. Yeah, I know you've mentioned. SBA sweet spot is usually 350 asking price up to $5 million companies, because they tend to be a little bit more safe. However, if you the question is, if you are at Capital stacking, you get a sum of money. So like Joe's talking about, you get 80,000 now you now, you could just say, hey, I can use the I can use the idea to use that same money and maybe put up the 20% on a lower priced, lower priced business. So you don't even necessarily have to go to the $350,000

Unknown Speaker  50:35
minimum asking price,

Speaker 1  50:37
absolutely, absolutely. And if you're working with with 20% on the smaller businesses, you can go to a regular bank and you're not dealing so that's what I'm able to do with the bank that, that, that I use, that we've been, I've been using for a while now, is I bring 20% but he I'm, we're, we're sub seven now on, on the interest rate and and he'll stretch it out to 15 years. So it allows me to have such a minimal down, you know, minimal monthly payment, that it just makes things easier at the beginning, and that that's just, you know, having that down payment 20% it opens up a lot more options. So if you wanted to get buy one of those smaller, you know, asking prices, then, yeah, you can do that. It's, it's all what you feel comfortable with, what your goal is, if you're just trying to learn the process, you know, if you want to, it just, it's all relative. You know,

Speaker 4  51:30
the one question always, I guess, it seems a little odd, or the one set of criteria that seems a little odd on the SBA is that they always mentioned that, you know, you had to have not been able to fund, fund this for through, through some other type of like, bank or whatever. So what is, can you explain that as, like, what does that really mean? Because if you have, you know, good enough credit already, you know, and we're saying, what is good maybe may not be the same as what we're thinking it up is here, you know, what is the likelihood of them approving an SBA loan if you're 750, plus and and higher.

Speaker 1  52:07
Well, so they're talking about if, if you can't go to a traditional bank for whatever reason. So some banks, you know, so you have the banks criteria, and then you have the SBAS, so the bank could say, No, we don't fund anybody that has never run a business, unless you have expertise in that field, you know that could be one, one reason you don't get it. The other reason is, you know, you don't have 20 or 25% down payment. All you have is 10 or 11 or whatever. That could be another. So that's enough, right there to say, well, I don't qualify for funding from traditional banks. So I'm going the SBA route. It's a lot like FHA, like, you know, if you can put 10% down on on a home, why would you use the FHA? You know, there's a lot of, you know, you're paying a lot higher monthly payments. You're paying PMI, you're doing all that stuff, but it's the same thing.

Speaker 4  53:02
So what happens if you get shot down from the SBA when they say, Hey, you know what? You know you we believe you can go get it some other some other way, is that, are you taking a ding that way? And the same as the the opposite is that the same thing too. You try to go over here, thinking you can do it without the SBA, and then they say, No, are you taking deans in your credit by getting disapproved by either one?

Speaker 1  53:25
Well, there's going to be a hard inquiry involved, so there's always that, but you're going to get denied by the bank before the SBA, if you make it through. The banks are going to be have higher criteria than the SBA, and they have an expert in every single bank that knows whether or not you're going to get approved or not, like, once they submit it, the hard the hard lifting, is pretty much over. They've already gotten all kinds of other information from you and gone through that whole process like I don't I've never heard of anybody going through the regular process at at a established bank. Now there are people out there's banks out there that don't know what they're doing, but you go to an established bank that's had an SBA department for a while, and somebody has done it, been there, done that, it's really unlikely that that the SBA is going to deny you. They'll the bank will deny you, and there's your hard inquiry, you you will lose that,

Speaker 4  54:21
can't they just look at it, kind of like, to your point, you know, if there's, if they're well versed in this type of process, can't they just know, kind of, by reviewing your situation already, where it's not really dinging you, they can just do a kind of a cursory

Speaker 1  54:35
they're your first line of defense. Yeah, like they're, you know, they're going to be the first, people, generally, other than you, to vet the business. They want to know all the numbers. They want the financials, just like everybody else does. And they're going to tell you right there, like, Oh no, this is not a good deal. The SBA is not going to fund this. We won't fund this. Like, or like, oh wow, this is good. Or this is really close, I don't know. You know. They're going to be the first sounding board for all of that. So that's they should be your friend. It shouldn't be adversarial with your lender, and if it is, you probably should go somewhere else. Okay.

Speaker 8  55:16
Shane, yeah, kind of, kind of an example, because I'm actually going to this right now. Okay, and granted, I have the benefit. I think I explained this before, but my my best friend from third grade, he he's a regional bank manager that only does SBAS, and he's attached me to someone else, because obviously it's conflict of interest.

Speaker 1  55:35
Hey, Jane, is this so is this for capital stacking, or should this be a mentorship? Uh, yeah, we can move on. Okay, let me, let me in this video, and then we'll pick that up. Okay?
