Speaker 1  00:03
Shane. Hello everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. We're getting ready to start the mentorship portion of our time on Thursday night. It is August 7, 2025 I kind of want to tell a little bit of a story tonight, about like, my week, it's been really crazy. I think I've kind of talked about the dealing with the old owner of the business that I recently bought. So we had a deal. This deal was for it was going to be, so there's a fairly large inventory. Basically, it was going to be, oh, let's see. I think, I think, Joe, you'll have to unshare your screen. There we go. So this deal was going to be half. Basically, I would put up half the money for the inventory, and we would sell or finance the other half at five years, that was kind of the idea well, so they brought a contract to me that was three years, and they wanted ownership, or, like collateral, of my LLC membership, you know, in the LLC, which My bank didn't even want, that they also, you know, so it was going to be a payment of like, 5000 a month. They, they had all these hardcore terms. And then I was like, You, I don't know something, something didn't feel right. So I went back through. I started i i had some of the people that I work with come in and do some inventory, what we found was that the inventory was so wrong that it could not be trusted. So what they were saying was were on the shelves. It was like it was not even close. Now I'm not saying that it was nefarious. I'm saying that it was just inaccurate to a degree that I did not feel comfortable entering into a deal. Now, it was on both sides, like it said some things were there that weren't there. It said some things weren't there that actually were there. So I went in myself and I so it's it's got an inventory management system. I sorted by the high ticket, high cost items, which are like turbos and, you know, it's auto, auto parts. So all the things that cost a lot of money, ECMs, stuff like that, and things that are like, 908 $50,000 I sorted by that first. And I'm like, Okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna check this inventory myself and see what's really going on. So I did that. I walked through the store room and I started looking. Just had an inventory sheet and highlighter and anything that's not here, I'm gonna highlight it. What I found was that two out of three things were not there. So I don't know where they went. I don't know what happened to it, right? But like, Okay, I I can't do this deal because you don't want to take chances. Like, this is, this is not gambling. This is not a lottery ticket, right? It's all about the numbers. It's about keeping yourself safe. It's about knowing that a business is in a good state before you buy it. All that. And I knew that the auto repair shop was in a good state. It was not something I didn't want the parts to begin with, right? So because of that, because every time I enter into a contract to purchase a business, I have a contingency plan, A, B, C, I have all the like, if the worst things ever happen, I can fall back to this. You know, you draw a line in the sand, like, if everything goes wrong, that can go wrong, I'm, I'm going to fall back to this, and I'll still be okay. So in this deal I had, I had put in place, in the contract, I demanded, in the contract that so it was, it's basically three sections of a building. There's the main auto repair shop. There's a middle part that's kind of dual use auto repair and other things. And then there's a front part that's a lobby, a parts inventory, like it's all that. So when I when I was negotiating this contract. I said, Yeah, I'm very comfortable with the auto repair shop. That's what I wanted. That place is great. It makes money. It's got great employees. It's everything that I look for in a business was contained there. The other two parts were potential expansion points, and I wasn't confident that those were going to be, you know, awesome. I just didn't know, you know, I was like, Well, I'd like the option of expanding there. I'd like to grow the business, whatever. So we put everything on a month, month lease where I had an option at any point I could just say, No, this is not working out. I'm going to retreat back. Back to the auto repair only, and you're going to have to rent this to somebody else. But it can be, it cannot be competitive with me. No auto repair, no auto related business. You can put a restaurant, you can put whatever, but it cannot be anything that can directly compete to me with with this business. So once I found out that the inventory was not accurate, and they basically sent me a contract that was almost laughable, to buy those parts where I just felt like, I felt like they were just trying to get anything over. You know, I tried to negotiate. I'm like, No, I'm not, you know, let's, let's talk about these numbers. And like, well, this is what the deal is. So I said, Okay, I'm going to call your bluff. That's why I put these contingencies in place. I'm going to retreat back to the auto repair shop. I'll pay some a contractor to come in. We'll put a lobby back there. You can take the rest of the building, whatever. So it was one of these things where I kind of had to play hardball, and they threatened where they were going. Okay, well, we'll just put an auto repair shop here. We'll do this, like this owner, this owner was so crazy, so so nuts that I'm like, you know, if you do that, I'm gonna sue you. We have a non compete clause. We it's right here in black and white. You cannot do this. You can't hire anyone to do the you know, we have a five year non compete in this county where this man cannot, he cannot do auto repair. He can't pay anyone to do auto repair. He can't buy another auto repair business. He can't be associated with auto repair in any way whatsoever. All he can ever do is possibly sell auto parts. That's it. And it was ironclad. So basically, they were just pushing and pushing and pushing and trying to do anything. So I said, Okay, take this other part of the business. Do what you want to do. If you, if you put an auto repair shop in there, I will sue the shit out of you. So do whatever you want. I'll be fine. Back here, this business makes a lot of money. We're fine. I've got great employees. I'll, you know, it cost me like $12,000 something like that, to put in a lobby, a nice lobby area. We're going to be fine. He said, Well, we're going to take the parking lot from you. I said, No, no, you're not. We have a lease. You know this, the lease, the purchase agreement, everything. This is why you hire a lawyer, right? This is why it becomes very important that you take all these documents before you actually sign them to someone who can make sure that they're looking out for your interest only. You know, my lawyer had gone through all of this stuff, and the suggestions that he made during that process became so valuable during this this exchange that it basically saved me from a potential huge failure, right? And the suggestion he made was that so I had a three year lease in this back area with a five year renewal, like, you know, if I want to renew, I can renew for five years. If I don't want to, I can get out whatever, but it it didn't have the original lease that they gave me. Didn't have, like, a strictly defined price to renew the lease at. And he told me, I remember him, him saying, he's like, you know, they could come back and say, We want you to renew for, you know, the price is 20,000 a month if they really want to just drive you out of there. And I'm like, well, that's a good point. So when I negotiated this, I said, the only way that we can negotiate this is 80% of fair market value for Class B commercial property in this area that you can find this on the national realtor association for this area, like, here's the number. It's 80% of this number, whatever this number is, that's what we do. So we put that in the contract, because otherwise, this guy, who was also the landlord could have said, in three years, yeah, you were treated back here, and you're making good money, but in three years, I'm going to drive you out, because I'm going to put the rent to whatever. But they couldn't do that. So the lawyer saved me right there. He saved me with all of all of the verbiage that he asked for in this contract. So once they realize and went to their lawyer that they couldn't do all these things that they were threatening to do, what? What did they come back with? They countered with an offer that was okay. You don't have to buy these parts. We just want you to lease the rest of the building. We'll take our parts over here, and if you let us sell them to somebody else, then you don't have to worry about it. You get the whole building at fair market value, like all the things that they were threatening, they're they stopped, right? So that's what I want to I want to I want to stress how important contracts are. Don't take anybody's word for any. Anything when it comes I don't care how nice they seem. I don't care, you know, you know they're, they're this nice old man, and he's built this business and no, get everything in writing, keep yourself safe. Use a professional at in and it sucks, because, you know, you have to pay an attorney like two grand to do this stuff. They spend a lot of hours. But if not for that, this whole deal would have, would have been in jeopardy. Could have possibly defaulted in three I mean, all kinds of things could have happened, but that's why you know this is not. This is a life that that we're we choose, right? We want this path. We want to, you know, everybody sees all the good sides and like, Hey, you can have financial freedom, and that's all absolutely true. But you can't gamble. You can't be willy nilly about what you you know, you can't just sign crazy papers and documents and hope for the best, keep yourself safe. That's, that's my lesson from this. And thank goodness that I, you know, I'm sticking to the things that I'm talking about where, you know, use an attorney, use a CPA, make sure that no matter what you're you're good. Because this is the first time that I've ever had to, like, retreat to my contingency plan. But thank goodness that it was there, because otherwise it would have been a disaster. So now we're good. I got the whole building. I can expand. I don't have to worry about those stupid parts. He can, you know, he could sell them on my eBay. That's his problem. It's not mine. But it's been a wild week dealing with that back and forth and very, very heated exchanges. So, but now he's got to be out by the 20th. We have a new contract. I don't have to worry about stuff. I can I can cherry pick the parts that I want to buy, and I'm going to buy, you know, things that matter, filter oil, stuff that day to day, that the the business needs. But other than that, no obligation. So, yeah, I just wanted to kind of tell that story, so you guys know that this is it's, I don't know what a lot of people paint it in a rosy way, but it can get nasty sometimes, so you protect yourself at all times. Okay, but with that said, this business is great. It's making great money because I found it the right way, and I use the numbers and everything. And we're moving forward. We've got, I got a great GM there. I don't have to be there all the time, like we're good, but it was pretty nasty for a minute. So there you go.

Speaker 2  12:56
I can't help but remember something you said weeks ago, before you bought the business, and you're asking the employees or how you're like, getting their reaction of the owner leaving, and they're like, Oh, thank god. You should have been like, Oh, what was that about? Now I'm yeah,

Speaker 1  13:18
now that we know the mistake I made, and was that I I underestimated his how, just how, mean the guy is really, how greedy and mean the guy is, yep. But even, even though I underestimated that, I still, I still put things in place, just in case. But, but, yeah, I did. I did. I misread this guy. I did. But, you know, it's it. It has all worked out. Thank goodness. So just because they're a baby boomer doesn't mean they're just a nice old, you know, older generation person that's selling their business and want you want the best for you. That's not always the case.

Unknown Speaker  14:09
It's not grandpa up there.

Speaker 1  14:16
Well, um, what about you guys? What's what's going on? Does, has anyone found anything? Any potential leads. I know we had a few, a couple of requests this week for and they didn't, they didn't come tonight, but for capital stacking, for down payment, for business like they found something, they're ready to go. So hopefully I'm going to reach out to them, and hopefully they'll come and, like, talk to us about it. See, you know, tell us what they found. It's funny, one of my co workers actually reached out to me with the business. He's like, Hey, look at this. You like this one? And it was a good business. So he's been watching the videos, so it's pretty cool.

Speaker 2  14:58
Yeah. What was the credit score recommendation and recommendation for the credit stacking, like 680 or is that the minimum?

Speaker 1  15:09
Or 680 is for the minimum for SBA loan to capital stack, you really need 7057, 10, something along those lines. You need a at least one credit card from a national bank with $5,000 like a $5,000 limit. If you have those two things, no charge offs, you're going to get good funding. Otherwise, you kind of, you really need to work on those two things first. Okay, yeah, yeah, that that national so the national credit card thing is kind of weird. I don't know how they're those National Bank databases work, but they just kind of discount local banks and credit unions. They don't, they don't put as much merit in there as they do with like Goldman Sachs and chase and you know, Capital One the big banks, so they figure if a big bank has given you a high limit credit card that you're fairly trustworthy and you've had it for a little while and you haven't misused it, you are much less risk for business credit of a certain age too. It can't be brand new. It needs to be like a year old. At least.

Unknown Speaker  16:27
I can get an example. It's not a

Speaker 1  16:29
hard that's not like a it won't keep you from getting decent capital stacking. But like, that's the ideal candidate. The ideal candidate is seven, 710, or better, 705, or better, somewhere around in there, and has those national, national cards. So that's when you, you know you're reaching into the 90s and the one hundreds,

Speaker 2  16:52
yeah, so it's gotta be one card at 5000 you can't have five cards with 1000 right? One five

Speaker 1  16:59
you need. You need one higher limit, because that means a bank is taking a chance on you and has not been burned. Yeah, one easy way to do that sometimes is the Apple card. I don't know if you have an iPhone, but that Goldman Sachs Apple card is, is a pretty good one to get a decent limit. And you can request, every six months, you can request a no hit credit raise on there, and they're pretty good about it. Yeah, okay, because, yeah, because that's Goldman Sachs. But otherwise, you know, Chase Capital One Bank of America, any, any big national bank? Okay, that helps, but that doesn't, that doesn't mean you can't. If you have a 730 credit score and you have a credit card that's more than two years old that you've been paying on that that's really like the the minimum minimum. If you don't have those two things, you probably shouldn't

Unknown Speaker  18:02
try it. Okay, I got one car that's like 2000

Speaker 1  18:06
Yeah, but is it old, though, have you had it for a while? Yeah, I've had it for several years. Okay, that's not, that's not so bad. But if you, if you've got just a couple brand new credit cards and that's all you have, oh, okay, you're, you're not gonna get much. Okay, cool. All right, that's the difference between a credit score and a credit profile. Your credit score being seven hundreds, that's awesome. You know, you can have an 800 credit score and a credit profile that really doesn't have the right criteria and not get much in capital stacking. You need both those things.

Speaker 2  18:42
Um, what do you think about being an authorized that that plan, or it's, I don't know if it's a trick, it's a kind of strategic plan. Being an authorized user on someone that has a huge credit card,

Speaker 1  18:56
it helps. It does help. But it's not as useful as it used to be. Used to be. Used to be, you know, you would actually inherit all of their credit data, like all their financial like every payment, everything for that card. But banks are smarter than that. Now they they know better. They know that was a that was a thing just like, you know, getting business only credit with net 30 accounts used to be a thing and like, it was like, 2023, 2022 like, you could get a lot of no PG business credit. You can't do that anymore. Like they, you know, they're, they're going to keep themselves safe too, right? They, they know. They watch these things that you know. They know what's going on. So yeah, you have to be careful.

Speaker 2  19:47
So let me think so. One more idea. What about a secured credit card? So if I if I had $5,000 and I got a $5,000 secured credit card, it would eventually two. Change over to a real credit card, right?

Speaker 1  20:02
Or it should, yeah, after you pay it off and you prove that you can handle it, they should, yeah, that's, that's like, the whole secure credit card thing. But I haven't, I haven't seen a secure credit card for like, $5,000 that's a pretty high limit. Usually, they're, like, 1500 something like that, and then they'll turn over you. I don't know. I've never seen one that high. You might be able to actually go and talk to a bank specifically, and talk to a physical person and say, Hey, what I'm trying to do, I'm trying to help my credit. I have this cash. Can we do this?

Speaker 3  20:41
Maybe? Joe, I think if you have a $2,000 limit, you can pay off, try to, like, put down, like, maybe, like, 30% utilization, and then, like, wait after the billing cycle goes through, you can call in and ask for the to raise your credit limit. So that way your utilization score will go down and it's going to be more than $2,000 Yeah, so might get like 5000 or four. And if you wait, you can do the same thing across the other cards here. So that way your the total limit is going to go up and and your credit score will improve as well. So it just like a domino effect.

Speaker 1  21:26
Yeah, have you asked for credit raises on your your current cards?

Speaker 2  21:31
They actually gave me a credit raise, like, maybe six or seven months ago. So, I mean, they did it automatically. I didn't ask for it.

Speaker 1  21:38
So if it's a card where you can ask for it, yeah, you know, ask for one every six months, especially if it's a no hit. If they're not going to do a hard inquiry, you know, find that first they're not going to do a hard inquiry. I mean, what? What's the worst can happen? They just say, No, yeah,

Speaker 2  21:54
right. Ask every day. I'll go in every week,

Speaker 1  21:58
because, because things change, like, you know, the age, view, credit, all kinds of stuff, like you can, you can go from like a $5,000 limit to a $25,000 limit. It's not Yeah, it happens, like I had a card go from, this was years ago, from 3000 to 19,000 just because I asked,

Unknown Speaker  22:21
yeah, yeah. Actually,

Speaker 1  22:22
some of the that was just a great yeah.

Speaker 4  22:26
Like, on my city, my city card, every six months, without even having to speak with anybody, you can just go in the app and my Capital One card. I just clicked request limit increase, and they were like, how much do you want? And I said, I want 15 grand. And then the like, the AI bot thing was just like, we'll give you 13,500 and then I just clicked accept. Automatically changes, yeah, but I've never asked for a credit loan before. But it was like, every six months, you can just automatically increase it without even having to speak with

Speaker 1  22:58
anyone, yeah, the Goldman Sachs card that you get for Apple. So you just text it. You text the card. You say, message, message, the the card, or whatever. And the little apple AI will say, you know, what do you need? You say, I want to a credit limit increase. And they'll, they'll say, Well, how much money are you making now? You know, like, a couple of those little, small questions, and then you have your answer immediately. You can only do it every six months, but there's no hit on it, and you can do it every six months. Yep, it's pretty cool. And even if you're not using it, just increasing it means your utilization goes down, because you have more overall credit. So it's, it's pretty cool. Yeah, I like Capital One too. I didn't, I got a Capital One business card maybe a year ago, but it's great. The rewards are really good. Like, it's hard to beat those rewards. Like, like, I can pretty much fly for free everywhere, because I use some of those business so the Capital One business card I use for like, one of the parts, one of the auto repair shops, you buy parts, and I just use that card, man, that that stacks up, that adds up. Like, I we've got so many frequent flyer miles we can go wherever, and it's just free, like so. And if you guys don't know how that stuff works, so when you go to a this happens a lot. When you go to a business and they say, Well, if you use a card, we're going to charge you 3% extra, right? Have you seen that? That happens a lot. The reason behind that is because the credit card companies, in order to get those cash back and those points and all that stuff that they're doing, they are charging extra fees to get that so somebody has to pay for that. They're not paying for it, you know, they act like that. That's a perk from them. No. The consumer or the merchant is paying for that. That's why those fees are coming about. So when you use stripe, Clover, whatever you're using as your credit card processor, what's happening when they swipe that card is it's going through. It's looking at the card. It's saying, Okay, what fees are associated with this card? And it does this query where it tries to find, like a subcontractor, basically, to handle that and but to pay the credit card company for those fees and those points. That's where that 3% is coming from. That 2% whatever it is, it's because they have to pay those points. Yeah, that's that's why, you know, because five years ago, that wasn't a thing. 10 years ago, when we had the, you know, with the swipe across, maybe that's 15 years more more, right? There were no fees involved with that. You just put your card in there and there's a receipt. The business owner kept the receipt. They would send them all off, and a check would be sent to the business owner from the credit card company, no fees whatsoever. But now everything's different, because they're trying to attract people vendors pay the credit card companies for like so they'll say, Okay, we're Adidas. We're going to give you so much money to where you can funnel people to buy ideas products with these points, right? And it's, it's like that. So the credit card company is getting point, getting money from them, they're getting money from us, they're getting money from the merchants. And, you know, it's, it's all like a shell game. It feels like we're, we're help, you know, getting all these points and all these rewards, but somebody is paying for them. Yeah, capitalism.

Unknown Speaker  26:57
Okay, does anybody

Unknown Speaker  26:58
I have a question and sorry I've only,

Speaker 5  27:02
oh, sorry, I've only joined two two times before. So I'm not sure if you guys already covered this, but I was just kind of wondering the process, once you find a business online and you reach out to the broker and get the numbers, do you help us actually go through them? Or, like, how do we initial initially weed through them to see if, if it's even worth getting to a CPA at that point?

Speaker 1  27:27
Yeah, that's a great question. So, yeah, I have a video out there that goes in depth into how to analyze those numbers. So okay, so you saw the listing. The listing meets the criteria, right? So what you do when you get the numbers is, you're verifying through the tax returns and the P and L's that the numbers that were on the listing are the numbers that are true, right? That's that's kind of the process. So I do have a video out there that explains that. It's in the community. You can also bring you can. You can send it to me, you know, if you don't want to put it out there for everybody, and I will look at it for you and try to help you. Or you can, like, bring it to the mentorship. And you can, you can share your screen and be like, Okay, here's what it is. We can analyze it together. We can go through it and kind of point out things. Maybe, like, hey, you need to ask about this. You need more information here. This number doesn't really make sense, or this is an add back. You know how to like, how to get your final numbers, because the end result of vetting those numbers is you want a you want to be able to create a pro forma from those numbers, what your pro forma is an educated guess as to what your first year in business would be if you bought it right? That's, that's your end goal. Like, okay, I'm taking all the data, all the history, all my loan costs, all my expenses, everything. And I want to know, like, at the end of year one, what are things? What should things look like? Did I pay my loan down? Did I make money? You know, whatever. So that's what those financials are for. But yeah, if, um, if

Unknown Speaker  29:11
you have them and you want to share them right now, we can go over them.

Speaker 5  29:15
I don't have them yet, but I have seen a few businesses that I did reach out to the broker, so still just waiting to hear back.

Speaker 1  29:22
Okay, okay, cool. And it's a lot of times too. It's like, you have an NDA, so you can't share a lot of the particulars, but you can always be generic and say, Okay, you can just give us the numbers, like, Okay, here's the cash flow, here's the whatever. Or you can redact things in the statements that they give you, and then we can look at it. We won't know what city or the name of the business or anything. That's fine, okay? And if you don't feel comfortable doing that, you can send it to me, and I'll help you. It might take me, but I'll always look through them, okay?

Speaker 5  29:56
And I know you said you buy companies that are. Like, kind of close by you. I'm in Southern California, and I am not seeing anything in my price range. Is it like, I don't mind traveling out of state to buy a business, but you know, is it feasible, or is it I'm assuming I should plan in for more expenses if I have to travel there, how often or do you actually go into your businesses?

Speaker 1  30:25
Well, I mean, it depends on the business. And there's going to be a lot of Front Loaded work. You know, you can plan on spending a couple of weeks to set them up, because you can, you can't just rely on everything being the way you want it to be, day one or day two or day three or day four, days you know like you to be. You need to, because there's always going to be surprises, and there's a lot of work that has to be done. You have to switch all the vendor accounts. You have to do all that stuff to move to transition ownership from the old to the new. That's just half the battle. Then you have to make sure that the employees are aligned with what you want them to do in the business. So the reason I say 200 miles is because the I originally started with the SBA, you know, like I my first deal was a seller, finance, then the next one was an SBA. And the SBA requires you to be within 200 miles, or that you will relocate to where the business is. That's part of the, you know, the requirements to get an SBA loan to begin with. Yeah, so, I mean, if you're not trying to get an SBA loan, you can travel. And there are plenty of, you know, out of state business owners. I just personally, I know that, just for instance, this last deal that I was just talking about, all the back and forth with this owner, and the craziness that happened, if I was out of state, that would have been a nightmare. I mean, I would have had to fly to whatever state. I would have had to, you know, be in a hotel for I mean, jeez, we're going on six weeks now, dealing with this jerk and, you know, and now it's finally, it's gonna, everything's gonna be over on the 20th of this month. But, like, it would have been, it would have been really rough to be out of state. You just have to, you have to remember that that. So that's why I say, you know, keep it close, if you can. But I totally get anybody that's in New York, Florida, California, things are just more expensive there, and it's harder to find a deal.

Speaker 5  32:35
Would you be? I've only seen like even nothing, under 500,000 but what is is, like, franchise companies, or, like, I've built kind of this brand, and you can buy the brand, but it's not an actual business.

Speaker 1  32:49
Yeah, yeah. And you don't want to be a part of that stuff, no. That's like the Amway, if you guys remember AMWAY or Avon, you know, that's a business. That's what that stuff is.

Unknown Speaker  33:06
Other than

Speaker 1  33:07
then like so you can think of you can find a business that doesn't even really have a location. There are online only businesses. There are podcasts and YouTube channels and E commerce if you're having trouble in California in general. I mean, you can buy a business in the Netherlands, if you wanted to, and still stay where you're at and manage them just like you would if it was next door, because they're virtual businesses. So there's, there's those options as well. Okay, and you'll find a lot of those on Flippa. Flip is probably the best website to find that type of business.

Speaker 5  33:52
Okay, other than SBA loans, what other loans do you recommend for first time business buyers? Yeah.

Speaker 1  34:01
I mean, just a traditional bank loan is, is pretty good if you, if you have a good credit score, and you have you can bring, you know, 20% is probably what's going to happen, what you're going to be required to do on a first time, you know, commercial loan from a traditional brick and mortar bank, but you'll get a lower interest rate. You'll get a longer amortization period. You can get upwards of 1213, 1415, years, which that really helps. You don't have to worry about those strict guidelines from the SBA. But you know, the barrier there is, you have to bring twice the amount of down payment.

Unknown Speaker  34:42
Okay, okay, thank you,

Speaker 1  34:47
actually, because I haven't used SBA in a long time, so I've been doing traditional bank loans, because it ends up saving a lot of money if you have the down payment ahead of time, because your interest rate is like three. Be three points lower. You know, you're at 13 years instead of 10, it just gives you a lot more wiggle room. Great questions, though,

Speaker 3  35:14
and then the closing time right? It's a lot less right, compared to SBA,

Speaker 1  35:20
oh, yeah, SBA, you know, plan on six weeks at least for an SBA loan to close, if not more, depending on, you know, if it's a, you know, you have people that do SBA loans at different banks that aren't preferred SBA lenders. If they're a preferred lender, then they can basically approve you themself. And then, you know, the SBA will definitely approve you. If it's not a preferred SBA lender, then they're just putting a package together, sending it to the SBA and hoping it gets approved, right? So that takes even longer, whereas with a traditional banker, especially a small bank, you can get approved and funded within three days, two, three days.

Unknown Speaker  36:02
Like the last,

Speaker 1  36:05
the last two loans that I got, it took a day and a half to clear. A day and a half. So that's, that's the power of a small bank where you're just talking to a person you know, and they go to bat for you, it's, it's hard to beat, but it takes a while to get there. You have to establish that relationship, and they have to trust your judgment. And you know, it takes a little bit, but it's, it's well worth it. I um, okay, can you go over? Brooke asked, Can you go over buying an online business one week? Yeah, like, I think there was a few weeks, as might have been, actually months ago, now that I think about it, where we looked at Flippa, and we're going over businesses on Flippa so I can, yeah, I can totally do that. We can do that next week. The thing with Flippa is, and one thing I don't like about it is there are so many businesses that are not US based and I, I'll, I'll be honest with you, I don't know much about buying a non US business. I don't know how it works. I don't it's like, it's not even something I'm interested in, because it just seems like more hassle than it's worth. Yeah, so you have to highly filter that down, because if you're going to buy a podcast and E commerce site, but just a website in general, I don't want to buy something from, you know, Chile or something where I don't know what the laws are, I don't know what the taxes are, just that, to me, that would be too much unknown. And who has time to learn what a whole other country does? There's too many opportunities in the US. People are clamoring to buy companies in the US and real estate in the US. And like there's a reason for that, so I would much rather stay focused on the US, but, but, yeah, I think it's a great idea. I can we can go through some everything holds all the same. Criteria still hold true, except for the employees. You know, because you're some of them don't have employees, and it comes down to whether or not you're tech savvy, what's automated, and you have to be careful on Flippa, you'll find like a website that's built with an old language that's not supported anymore, that's hard to maintain, that you would have to hire a developer to deal with that kind of stuff. But yeah, yeah, 100% we can. We can do that. Next week, I was actually going to ask everybody for a topic, and that's a good one. I like that. Yeah, it's hard to be tech savvy anymore. There's so many possibilities and things to learn. It's it's kind of daunting.

Unknown Speaker  39:02
There's so much new out there now.

Speaker 1  39:04
Oh, and it changes every single day, like it

Speaker 6  39:07
does, it does I whenever I got my LLC, I went ahead and got my line of credit set up, they gave me that at like a 6.9% Well, last week, I get a call, but I didn't answer it, but I got a voicemail from someone saying they give me like 200,000 credit at 4.9% is she or not,

Speaker 1  39:43
I wouldn't trust that that seems very What was your original line of credit?

Unknown Speaker  39:48
What was the my line of credit was for 150

Speaker 1  39:52
Okay, well, was it, did you? Was it a reputable bank

Unknown Speaker  39:56
or yes, very, I.

Speaker 1  40:00
If you could reach out bank. Okay, so I wouldn't, I wouldn't know. I would not whatever the voicemail said was the contact information I would not use that. I would reach out. I would Google whatever that bank is, talk to somebody in their commercial department, make sure it's not a scammer or something. But yeah, if you can get more money for less, yeah, that's, that's a, that's a, definitely a win. But you just have to be careful about scams. Like, there's so many people, like, they get a little bit of information, they they put a sliver of truth in it, and that's how they get us, right. So that's why, you know, never rely on anything, any cold call, like, I'm not taking them, I'm not talking to people I don't have time for that crap. Voicemail, yeah, I got a call last week from it said, We're, this is the Border Patrol, something or other. And I'm like, You are obviously a scammer. And that's was my first thing. I first words to them after Hello, and they're like, What do you mean? This is on a recorded line. I said, well, good, good, because you're scammer. I don't believe anything you're saying. And I was started going off, and they just hung up, you know, but you just have to be careful. It's it's, it's wild,

Speaker 6  41:22
especially after this wanky fan. Yeah, it's,

Speaker 1  41:27
it's crazy. You can't trust tick tock. You can't trust through your phone. You can't trust any emails, jeez. So that's, that's why, you know it might be a good deal. I think if it, you know, if you have a line of credit, you haven't used that line of credit yet. Are there penalties for closing that line of credit if you wanted to go with this other

Speaker 6  41:50
I don't think so. Or I can just sit on it.

Speaker 1  41:53
Yeah, you can sit on it, not, not do anything, but usually their annual fees, right? Do you have annual fees.

Speaker 6  42:00
I already paid the fees. Okay, that's what made my credit go up.

Speaker 1  42:07
Well, I mean, don't get credit if you don't

Unknown Speaker  42:10
need it, right?

Speaker 6  42:13
I'm getting ready to do something. Okay, okay, I just ain't figured out what yet.

Speaker 1  42:22
That's the that is the hardest part,

Unknown Speaker  42:25
right? Yes, yes.

Speaker 1  42:33
I think I'm just going to get a pug, and I'm going to do some Instacart, and I'm, I'm going to be happy.

Unknown Speaker  42:41
You gotta move to the to Florida.

Unknown Speaker  42:48
That actually sounds pretty good. You know,

Unknown Speaker  42:51
can we see your pug? I

Unknown Speaker  43:00
I think they went downstairs. But

Speaker 2  43:09
next time, next time, they just want snacks. They don't even want me to pet them. They just live her and I try to pet them. They run away, they come back. They just want

Unknown Speaker  43:19
snacks. I'm the same way. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  43:27
Okay, does anybody have any other questions?

Speaker 2  43:34
Okay, I could add one more thing to the online thing. There's a website called website closers, which sells webs online businesses too, and it's really cool. I've looked at it before. It's not as sketchy as flip I know you're talking about when it comes to flip up, because it's like people in India and Singapore everywhere else. But website closers seems a little more, little more legit, so more clean cut there actually seem like real brokers doing it, I guess you could say, but really nice listings, really good, detailed about everything. So that's another option out there for people looking for that.

Speaker 1  44:09
Okay, okay, we might look at that also next week. We just, just kind of cast a wide net and see if we can find something good, right? Because it doesn't matter where you are in the world, if we can find a good one, that might be a possibility for anybody. So, okay, cool. It's.
