Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday, October 16, 2025 and tonight, what we're going to be talking about is how to pay yourself as a business owner. A lot of people don't think things through that. You know, I always say you need an exit strategy and when you buy a business or any kind of investment, but at the same time, you also need to think about, especially with business any anything that cash flows, anything that has profit, is what you're going to do with that profit. What? How are you going to take that business income, that net profit, and pay yourself to make it worth your while. There's a lot of different strategies, but you need to know ahead of time. But what you're going to do, the last thing you want to do is wait till it's tax season and think, Oh, crap, what am I going to do? I didn't think about this. I didn't make a lot of money, or I made a whole bunch of money. I didn't pull any out, or I pull a bunch out. Whatever you need to know what your strategy is ahead of time, because if your finances aren't right, if your your tax strategy as an owner isn't right, it's a red flag to the IRS, and it's just asking for an audit, because they're going to want to see that you as a business owner, as a participant in that business are handling your taxes the way you're supposed to, and, you know, they have a lot of rules in place, and it's not, it's not as straightforward as one might think. So. So let's get into this. Why does it even does it even matter? It's because you're, a business owner, and it's more than just a paycheck, like you're working for someone else, right? When you you get a salary, or you get hourly wages or whatever, it's not something that you even consider as a as an employee, because that is, that is all you know, handled by someone other than you. You don't make those decisions. So with a business, we always talk about it being a wealth building tool. So if it's a wealth building tool, then you need to have a strategy to make sure that it's actually building wealth and not costing you too much. So they business owners offer often underpay or overpay themselves. They might be squeezing every you know, dime out of the business, or paying themselves $1,000 a year. Either one bad strategy for different reasons, it can lead to, you know, you can cripple the business. You can get audited. There's a whole you can just be costing yourself and the business money. And I'm guilty of this. I kind of use cash flow, the term cash flow interchangeably with net profit and seller discretionary earnings. It's kind of the way I learned. But cash flow is really what's in the business bank account, what's going in and out, in and out. That's technically what cash flow is. So I kind of, I can't break the habit. I don't know why. I've just been saying it for so long, but net profit is what's left over after you pay everything. So at the end of the year, it's, it's, you know, all your expenses are taken out. You have all of your income that's coming in. You pay your taxes, you do everything. There's a certain amount that's left in your bank account. That's your net profit, and that includes your own pay, because owner compensation is considered an add back, and we've talked about that several times before, right? It's, it's still, still part of the business, but you have to be strategic in how you pay yourself, because it offers stability. It allows you to, you know, plan for your own personal income strategies, what you're going to do with the money when you make it, are you going to reinvest it? Are you going to put it in 401, K, whatever it is that you do with your money. Are you just saving for a down payment for another business, whatever? But you need to know what you're going to do with it, and it also it stabilizes your books. So if you do want to sell at some point, it's easy to see, okay, this owner was making 5000 a month. That's that. That's what their compensation was. It's consistent. It's every single month, and it just leads to stable books and a more desirable business to buy. So what? What really affects the pay is the type of entity that you have. Okay, most people, most businesses that we talk about, are probably LLCs. You might, you might have a sole prop in there, which is just a single person that owns a business, and they have not created an entity in any way. It's just, it's just them. It's, you know, Bob's Burgers or whatever. They've never even bothered to register it with the state. It's just their side hustle or business, right? Most people these days know that an LLC is is smarter than that. So, you know, the way that I buy businesses, generally, I have an LLC. I buy the assets of the business. I do a DBA under the the old business name. And that's so it's, it's generally an LLC. So that means that the taxes flow through your personal tax return on your schedule C, so you, you know, you, you flip through your your 1040, you go to Schedule C, and there it is. It's how much your your business made, right so it attaches right to if you have a second job, right to your personal cash flow in the S Corp is, is kind of a allows for a mix of both the w2 salary and possible profit distributions. So it's kind of like a hybrid, whereas a C Corp is it's kind of, it's double taxation, is what they say. C Corp is its own taxable entity. It's not on your 1040 it's not on your schedule. C It's like it's it's got its own tax number, just like an LLC does, but it files its own tax return. It's not on yours. What's on yours is whatever you pulled from that business. So you get the profits from the C Corp taxed, and you get the profit that you pull in tax. So it's a double right? And it seems like that would never be a good strategy, but it can be in certain instances, and I'll explain why. So with the C Corp, you can get a salary, you can get dividends, you can get benefits, like 401, K, health insurance, all that kind of stuff, just like you would as a normal employee for any business. But, but you know, that's that double taxation thing. You gotta watch out for that and make sure it's worth it. So choosing that right structure really makes a difference in how much you pay in taxes, how much your business can write off, how much you can write off, and really the health of your business and your personal finance. So how do you choose how much you should pay yourself first? So just like anything else, if this is your only source of income, it needs to to handle your lifestyle. Don't put every dime back into the business. If you're struggling and you're barely, you know, making your rent, you have, you know, you you have to be comfortable. And I've been guilty of this when I'm, you know, when we were saving, when we're hardcore investing, when we're trying to build to kind of where we're at now. I mean, I I'm pretty hardcore when it comes to making sacrifices for the future, and it pays off, but at the same time, you know, like, try to strike a balance, because nothing is guaranteed. We don't know if we're going to wake up tomorrow, right? So don't suffer for five years and just for nothing, you know, take a little bit for yourself. You know, don't, don't always build, build, build. And this is actually something that that my wife gets on to me for. She's like, you know, we need to have some fun. Quit working all the time. We built this. Let's enjoy it. So I'm kind of switching gears a little bit to do that. So if you have a base pay, it's a good idea. So say, for instance, your business is making a certain amount, and you're going to, you're going to set your base pay at, like, $1,000 a week, 500 a week, whatever it is, it's a good idea to think about what that base pay should be. And that means that in the Lean months and then the good months, you still make that base pay, okay, so that's, that's what base pay is. Distributions means that in the months where you do really well, you can do a distribution to yourself to say, okay, you know, we really kicked ass in June. So I'm going to give myself more money because, you know, we we did more. You know, you don't have to do it. That's what, that's where you can make the decision. Well, do I take that distribution or do I put that money back into the business? Do I buy more equipment? Do I do more advertising? Do I grow whatever? And that's just a personal decision that you're going to have to figure out. Many of the small businesses that I see out there, and that people that I talk to, they do profit first. I don't necessarily do that, but I think it's a good strategy. Profit First means that you pay yourself first no matter what, and by paying yourself first, that means you have steady income. You're personally growing from that business, as opposed to flipping that around. And maybe you don't take as much, but the business grows. So it depends on where, where your head's at, and what you want to do with this business. Are you in a growth phase? Are you in a a stable phase where you're just kind of, kind of, you know, plucking fruit from from the vine, but you just have to figure out what you want to do, and, you know, what other sources of income do you have? Is this your only thing you got going? Is this the third or fourth or fifth thing, whatever? But you just have to figure that for your. Stuff. But I think it's a good strategy. It guarantees that you're okay. The business night might not always be okay, but you're okay. And then you adjust some of the ones, like landscaping, especially, you can adjust your your in your what you pull out by the season. So if you do really well all summer long, you can pull more money out seasonally, but you still need to pull some out for the rest of the year. So just think about that. Like, okay, I know we're going to do 100,000 in profit for landscaping. Do I want to pull that out in the six months where we're doing really well, or do I want to spread that out over the whole year? You know you know you have to make that decision, but you need to have a plan for it. But the IRS understands that some businesses, construction, landscaping, things like that, are very seasonal, and they understand if you have six months where you take a bunch out, and then maybe six months where you hardly take anything out. So you want it to be predictable. If you want to take 50,000 for the year, then you need to think, okay, no matter what, I'm taking this much per month or this much per week, or this much every other week, whatever. But you don't want to do it like every six months or once a year. You want to have it just like a paycheck, like anyone else would get no one out there would be content to get paid once a year. You know, you work all year long, and then, okay, June 1, we're going to give you your paycheck. Nobody. It's just not reasonable, right? It's the same thing as an owner. And then you want to separate those accounts. The last thing you want to do is start doing personal expenses from your business account or have another business account that you put your pay as an owner into. You want to pay yourself to a personal account and not, not ever mix those funds. When you do that, you're piercing the corporate veil. You're just asking if, if there's a lawsuit for them to come and take your personal assets to it's the whole point of having a separate entity as a limited liability corporation, is that they can't sue you personally, ideally, as long as you keep keep that stuff separate. So always keep that separate. And then you want to review every single month to see if you can, you know, maybe the business is not doing maybe it's trending down. You know, if you, if you're taking 10,000 a month from a business, and you look at the charts and you see that that the lines are going down, the economy is slowing down. Things are not looking as bright as they were adjust. Don't strangle the business because you're sticking to this strategy. You can adjust. That's perfectly fine. The IRS will be like, well, you know, we see that profits are down, so your pay was decreased. Nothing wrong with that. So let's talk about the different entity types and how it matters. So what you're going to hear all the time is the self employment tax. Self employment tax is as around 15.3% that's a high rate of tax. So when you have an LLC, and say you pull 100,000 from that LLC, you're paying $15,300 in taxes if you pull 100 from it as an LLC, there's no way around that. That's just how an LLC and a sole proprietorship works. Now, obviously you can reduce your taxable income with expenses and do other tax strategies, but generally, that's how that works, and that's at a higher rate than most people pay on their taxes, unless they're making a whole lot of money for an S corp, what they consider what you should be making, if it's an S corp and you're an owner, is reasonable salary. It's they call it reasonable compensation, so with a defined reasonable compensation, that is basically so if you were to take your skills to a different company, what that company would pay? It needs to be comparable to industry standards. So if you're an architect and you're making 10,000 a year, that's not feasible. That's not reasonable compensation. If the industry standard is 100,000 150,000, then that's about what you should be making. But they do understand passive ownership. So if you are purely passive in a business, and you're just going there a few hours a month, a few hours a week, whatever, you don't have to pay yourself as much, because it's it's also like return on time, so you can save yourself, and you know, a certain amount, if, like, you know, I only spend five hours a week doing anything with this business whatsoever, then you can justify reducing how much you pull out of it and just build the business I've done that. Many times, and I've never had any issues with that. But you can also, you know, you pay yourself a reasonable salary that could be fairly low, but still, you know, on par for the industry. And then if you're doing really well, then you can take additional distributions, and it's almost like a performance bonus, essentially, for a regular employee. It's the same concept. And then with C corps. C corps, like I said, they're their own entity. They pay you. If you have a C Corp, you're getting paid through a regular payroll and then possible dividends as an owner. So you're a regular employee. You know you have whatever your salary is, you might make 100 grand a year through this C Corp. You pay standard taxes, just like any employee would, and then, if you take dividends, dividends go on your the same, same thing as stock dividends. It's no different the way it's taxed. So it's, it's, it could be potentially capital gains taxes you have to pay on that. It just depends on what your per your personal tax strategy is. But it's the same concept. So how a lot of people mitigate that is they'll they'll do like healthcare, savings accounts. Roth IRAs, through the business, for one case, through the business, all that kind of stuff, where you can take that pre tax income or whatever, and throw it over there so it reduces your overall income, so you don't pay as much in taxes. Or you could have the business, you know, finance or not finance, but provide you with a vehicle, with a phone. There's there's so many different things you can do, but especially a lot of people do vehicles and phones, home, internet, home office, that kind of stuff, you can still take that stuff out and to reduce your taxable income. And as always, with anything when it comes to taxes, excellent records and keep everything consistent across the board, if you want to get a loan later, if you want to sell the business at some point, you need to have every single thing documented and proof of everything. And ideally, and I think we're going to talk about this in a little bit, you want to use one of those software platforms that's going to handle all that for you, especially when it comes to draws, distributions, salary, whatever it needs to be legit and just like every other employee in your business, so self employment taxes apply to draws, that's that 15% whereas payroll taxes apply to salaries. So remember, those are two separate strategies. So self employment taxes, draws, payroll taxes, salaries. So remember that. Okay, obviously, you know, you know the quarterly estimated payments can will help you as a business owner, not get audited and not get fined and things like that. That's almost like a separate discussion. Hopefully, if you buy a business, you have a bookkeeper, you have an accountant, it's going to handle that stuff for you. I don't want to get into the weeds of that necessarily, because there's a lot going on there, even even sales tax. You know, you have to pay sales tax back to the federal government quarterly. So whatever sales tax you bring in, you don't pay that, you know, at the end of the year generally, unless it's a very small business, you're saying you're taking all of that money, bundling it up, and then every quarter, you send a check for all that sales tax of the federal government. So that kind of stuff is a little different. I'm just, I just wanted to make that distinction here that you're we're going to separate that out. Like I said before, you can do 401, K's, IRAs, to reduce your taxable income. But the main thing is, is use the software. I harp on this all the time. I don't care what it is, use the software to make your life easier. That's not expensive, gusto. Gusto was a great payroll platform. It costs, like, geez, like 200 a month, 180 a month for up to, like, 10 employees. It handles everything. It does the W twos, the W fours. It does. If you want to do benefits for your employees, you can do benefits through it. You can do owner draws. You can do a salary for yourself. The payroll is super easy where you know if you if you pay every two weeks, you go in there, it's like a the Wednesday before, and you put the hours in, you can put deductions, you can put bonuses, you can put whatever. You just run that payroll. And it's super easy. The employees like it because they can go do direct deposits. They can take that that pay and distribute it amongst several different bank accounts, whatever they want to do. It's just, it's just easy and stress free. And then when it comes to, you know, to tax season, they give you all the documents. They give you all. The spreadsheets and forms and numbers that you need, and what you don't want to do is pay your employees through gusto, but then you're pulling cash personally instead of using the payroll platform. That's a red flag. It's like, why would you be doing that? If it's good enough for your employees, why is it not good enough for you? And just keeps consistent books. So so keep those together. And for the draws you want to use, you want to draw to a separate account. You don't want to draw to cash. You want to you know a record of where it's going, how much it is, and

Unknown Speaker  20:35
you want to stay disciplined and keep it consistent.

Unknown Speaker  20:39
Always clean bookkeeping.

Speaker 1  20:43
So let's, let's talk about when it makes more sense to do what, right as far as your your typical salary, if your annual profit is 50 to 100k which is probably a lot of starter businesses, hopefully that's what we're getting. Is somewhere around in that range. You need to be pulling some money out for yourself. So it's not a red flag. If it makes 100k and you pull out 40, that's that's reasonable, right? You're still putting 60 back into the business. You know, you're building, you're growing, you're doing whatever, but you need to be pulling something out of it, because it's going to get taxed regardless if it sits in the business bank account. It's going to get taxed as profit. You may as well pull it into your personal account legitimately. If it's 100 to 250 then you need to be more like 50 to 90, and then maybe have some distributions for the good months. Anything that's 250, to 500 or more. I don't know why. It says s, chat, G, P, T, you want to do a salary distributions, possible, 401, K, you then you're talking about, you know, IRAs. You're talking about a car, vehicle, that kind of stuff, right? That's when you you really should not even try to do it yourself. If you're making 250k from business in in profit, and you don't have an accountant that you can strategize and sit there with, then you're making a huge mistake. When you're you're at that level, there's you will save yourself money by paying someone else to to worry about this stuff, someone that knows better than you. Remember, there's always somebody better than you with these things, and even if it caught, you know, it might cost you 234, $5,000 a year for a good accountant, but they'll save you 50 grand easily, easily. So let's talk about some real world scenarios here. So say you have an auto repair shop. You're making 150 grand. It's an LLC. You could, you could do a salary plus distributions. You could, you need to sit down and do the numbers and think, Okay, I'm, I'm probably going to make 150 this year. I made whatever last year. Maybe add a little bit for growth, whatever. And you think, how much is it going to cost me if I do owner draws where it's going to be 15% so, you know, self employment tax, what's that cost me in taxes, as opposed to where my tax bracket is if I just do a salary and then maybe some bonus distributions. But, you know, in in my state, in Missouri, if you're making more than about 6050, to 60,000 it makes more sense to switch to a C Corp and not do the draws anymore, to do actual salary. But anything less than that, it makes more sense to just leave it as is. So it just depends on your state. You know, I'm sure things are way different in California than they are in Missouri. But you need to know what those regulations are and where it matters. So it maybe you have a lawn care company that's making about 80 grand, but it's only it's making that within six months, then you might want to do seasonal draws. You're going to do once a month from April to, I don't know, September, and then you don't do any other ones. That's totally acceptable, a laundromat. You might have a slobber knocker of a laundromat that's making 250k in profit. Then you're going to want to do a salary, and you'd be heavy on distributions and reinvestment. That business itself doesn't have to necessarily pay you, but it can reinvest into another business. It can buy another one, and it can become a holding company for other businesses. When you get to that level, things change, and you need an accountant. Just remember that 250 is a magic number, whether it's personal income or business income, things change. You get to different tax brackets. You get to just it's just more complicated, but shockingly, it's easier to make more, to to pay less in taxes when you get to that level than it is if you're making 100,000 and it's completely backwards. But that's just the way the tax code is. So let's talk about the bottom line here. Your salary should reflect your real contribution to the business. If it comes down to the IRS, is considering auditing you, or does audit you? If you're sitting at home and you only spend about an hour a day on that business, they understand if you don't make a lot of money, if you're 50 to 60 hours of that business, and you're busting your ass every day, all day, and you're, you know, I don't know, you're a beautician, and you own the salon, and you're there all the time, and you're cutting hair, and you're doing all that stuff, they're going to expect you to make reasonable compensation for that, and if you're not, you're going to be in trouble, okay, because no one's going to work for nothing. I don't care what it is, and the IRS understands that. They think if you're if you're killing yourself at this business and not making any money, then something nefarious is going on, because regular people don't do that. So yeah, the more you work, the more salary you should get. The more passive you are, the more you can lean on distributions. So maybe not a salary, but like, think of it more like stocks. If the company the earnings are doing good, they give you more dividend every quarter, same thing, document, justify and be consistent. And finally, this is a strategy that you need to to figure out before you start making money. Don't wait until you've been doing this for six months or a year and you have to scramble and figure out what, what the hell am I going to do for taxes? Don't do that. I don't care if you have to pay an accountant 100 $200 an hour to sit down for an hour or two to talk about it. You need to. You need to do that because it don't don't wait till it's too late, is what I'm saying. Always keep business and personal cash flow completely separate. Pay yourself consistently. Use Tax Strategies legally. I've talked about it many times. There are so many different strategies you can do. A good accountant will help you through all that stuff. There's a bunch of them that I know about, and I've talked about many times to save you money. But people when you when you get to this level where you start making real money, it's almost more important what you do with your taxes than it is what you do with your next investment. So it's, it's hugely important and be structured, be disciplined, and just don't be afraid to pay an expert when you get to that level. Okay, so I know that was probably a lot of information, but essentially, if you have a small business. Let me just boil it down to this, if you have a small business making about less than 100,000 pretty much, okay, for an LLC and owner draws, okay, anything above that, as a rule of thumb, you're probably going to want to have some sort of a salary and dividends. And then when you get to the 250 level or more, you need to talk to a tax professional, you need to make sure that that you're doing what you need to do. Okay, all right. Anybody have any questions about that? I'm sure you

Speaker 2  28:16
do good. I have question. Okay, so how do you make a owner draw does it has like you said, you cannot take cash, right? So it has to be like a total check. Or can you transfer it online to your personal

Speaker 1  28:32
account here? I mean, you, you can you? I just recommend that you don't just go to the bank account and pull out cash, right, and then label it as an owner. Draw on your taxes. You know use like gusto. For instance, you as an owner. When you create the account for gusto for your business, it asks you what your role is in the business, and you put owner. When you put owner, that means that you can do several things. You can set up a salary for yourself, or you can do an owner draw directly through them, so you can set up just like you any employee would transfer you to your bank account. You can have it, you know, draft a check for you and do that, but it just it spits out in the payroll accounting, just like it does for every employee. So that's what I mean. Like if you do a draw, just do it through the payroll system. Don't, don't just pull money out of the cash register like some owners do that. That's where you come you you get into problems.

Unknown Speaker  29:30
It's just, it's a good,

Speaker 1  29:33
I don't know, a record of what's actually happening, and then set it up regularly. So if the employees get paid every week, why wouldn't you take a draw every week, even if it's a small draw, you know, but that way it's consistent, just like the employees, because you might be an owner, but you're also working there.

Speaker 2  29:51
Okay, thanks. And how do you know, like a the first capital, the initial capital, when you start your business? Uh, like, since it's your personal funds, right? And do you also use, like, gusto or QuickBooks to do that,

Unknown Speaker  30:12
or your working capital? I'm not sure I answered,

Speaker 2  30:14
yeah, right, the working capital, the initial one, like, when you just started, let's say

Speaker 1  30:19
so when you just you have an owner contribution, so that wouldn't be through your payroll system at all. That's just, you know, on your taxes, you know on your your books, you do say, Okay, I just bought this business. I need this much working capital. I'm going to do a 20,000 owner contribution to this LLC. I'm just going to fill that bank account with whatever working capital I need to get me through the first few months. That really doesn't have much to do with kind of what we're talking about here. It's kind of a separate taxable event. But you know, and you don't even have to pay yourself the first few months, there's nothing wrong with you know, you're stabilizing the business and everything. But when you hit like 456, months, you need to be paying yourself something unless the business is not profitable. And the the owners out there that have like a side LLC or whatever, if they could, if they year over year, keep showing losses in a business, the IRS will come in and say, That's not a business. That's a hobby. After a few years, you need to show a profit, and that happens all the time. So what will happen is the IRS will say, Okay, you have this LLC on the side, but you're showing losses consistently for three years in a row, but you're still putting money into it then that we don't consider this a business anymore. And they go back those last three years and they say all the deductions that you took for that business aren't valid, so you owe taxes on all of the those deductions. So you have to be very careful with that. People make that mistake too. They think that an LLC is just a way that you can show a bunch of losses and you can, but not forever. The IRS understands that you're building, you know, I mean, Amazon was not profitable until it'd been around for, what, 10 years, something like that. It was losing money consistently, but you know now it's making a shit ton of money, but they kind of deal with us the same way.

Unknown Speaker  32:35
It's good question, though, anybody else.

Speaker 3  32:44
So if Gus does all your like tax forms, and you can file taxes through them, what's like the role of your accountant, if the bulk of the work is done by like that kind of platform,

Speaker 1  32:56
well, gusto just does your payroll. It doesn't do like your you know, so you got gusto, you got QuickBooks. Everything kind of works together, right? So, so your accountant will have access to QuickBooks. They'll have access to your payroll system, so they can go look at it. They can help you with your sales tax. They can help you with, you know, onboarding new employees, whatever. So they're kind of putting all of that stuff together for you, and what you'll end up doing, like, month over month, what you'll do is you'll send them like this is what I generally do with my accountants. I will send them the statements for because I don't like them to have access to my my bank account and to my credit card accounts directly. So I'll just send them statements at the end of the month, first of the month, I sit down, I'm like, Okay, I'll send all the statements for the credit cards for this business and the bank account to the accountant. They can go look at the payroll system. They can reconcile that. They can go look at QuickBooks. They can reconcile that. They do all the work from that point, but just gusto by itself and just QuickBooks by itself. Now you might be able to get get away with QuickBooks, because you can do payroll through QuickBooks. I don't do it. I don't know anyone who actually does. There's got to be a reason for that. I don't, I can't, I can't talk crap on them, because I don't know. But like, I don't know anyone that actually pays their employees through QuickBooks. Maybe it's expensive, I don't know. But like, you can get a basic account on QuickBooks for like, 30 a month, and then you have an accountant, and then you have gusto, and you can, you're set. You You have all bases covered to where they're they're handling your books. They're handling your all your expense reports. They're handling reconciliation every single month. But, yeah, you can't do it only on on gusto.

Unknown Speaker  34:53
Got you Okay? Thank you. And

Speaker 1  34:56
even more importantly, the accountant is going to help you strategize too. I. So when you have say, like, say, Okay, I need to buy whatever for the business. What's the smartest way to do this? Do I just buy it outright and try to do depreciation on it? Or what? Like, you need to be able to have those discussions with someone who's been through it over and over and over, if you don't know the answers to that, and you have to pay people for knowledge, that's just lying.

Unknown Speaker  35:28
Gotcha. It makes sense.

Speaker 1  35:41
Okay, yeah, I did. I figured there was a reason why Gina that people don't use QuickBooks. But like, I know it's, I think it's ADP and gusto. ADP is the other one. Gusto is more like a West Coast that's where they started, and they've kind of been sweeping across the nation. I think the other one's ADP. People, a lot of people swear by ADP. They they like it better. But I've had good, good experience with gusto. The support's great. It's cost effective. It does everything. I've been on both sides of it, as an owner and as an employee, so but I've also heard good things about ADP. So I don't know it's funny, because my accountant is actually a sales rep for ADP, and I use gusto, so he's always wanting me to switch to ADP.

Speaker 4  36:29
ADP does all of your taxes for you. Once you plug in all your numbers, it automatically files all your payroll taxes. Oh, wow, okay, yeah, it's really sweet. It's more expensive, though, right? Not real. Well, it's probably about the same as gusto from what you saying.

Speaker 1  36:52
I think it's pretty expensive, but that makes sense, because it's almost, you know, if it's doing all that too, gusto is not not doing that for you, right? It'll give you the reports, but you're gonna have to file everything

Speaker 4  37:06
yourself, or have your filing. It was like you just hit a button. It does it itself. Wow.

Speaker 5  37:19
I have a question of, Why do you not let them have access to your kind or your credit card? Is that, like,

Speaker 1  37:32
just paranoid, I just don't, I don't like the idea of anyone being able to sign in in to my credit account and, like, issue themselves a card, or see my virtual card and make purchases. You know? I mean, I trust them. Don't get me wrong. They're, they're an accountant, they're licensed and everything. It's just, it just seems like, for my peace of mind, I can just send them the statement every month. It's not that big a deal, you know? It's, it's so easy, I literally go on there. I download the statement, I hit a button, and I text it to them or email it to them. It's just that easy. It's like,

Unknown Speaker  38:10
like you are aware I got my

Unknown Speaker  38:13
my finances initially model like

Speaker 5  38:18
some mistake, but recently I've collected those. So I get to a point in my business where the business is collecting a lot of cash for me as up until like, a month or two on gold, and I'm working in the business. Now, I'm actually the only worker in the business at this point, and I'm trying to make any need I know the business can. They can't afford to get any salary or get any pay whatsoever from the business at this point. Can I just the way the cash flowed from a personal account into the business. Can I reverse and send them money straight that store myself through my account? You have to sustain myself. Would that be acceptable? Well, I

Speaker 1  39:14
mean, yeah, you can. You can pay yourself, yeah, I mean, but are you saying that it's not, it won't sustain any kind of payroll,

Speaker 5  39:23
no, not at this point,

Unknown Speaker  39:29
figuring it out myself and

Speaker 5  39:33
the estimate, or rather the podcast that I did before going in. I'm not getting those bad because I'm using, like a broker system for most of the profit, and the forecast that I made is going toward the broker so I'm actually, like, not profiting, but making a strategy to exit from the broker system. So bottom line is. The business is not able to sustain it right now, like, make payments to me, but it's able to pay its bills right now. And so what I did was some of the money that I put into it, I'm like, okay, here I need to, you know, I, you know, put this cash into it, just like after your one of your class here, I learned my lesson, and I made sure that I separate things so, if not from my account, into the business account. So what I did, or what I've been doing, is make sure that send money flow back so I can sustain myself and then have the business grow to understand where it can pay me eventually, that shouldn't be a problem, correct, right?

Speaker 1  40:49
And you know, if so, if you're thinking that you know you want to put money in this business and have it pay you back that same money at some point. Is that what

Unknown Speaker  40:58
you mean, while it can't,

Speaker 5  41:00
yes, I actually, yeah, I actually pulled the money, you know. So I didn't put everything at chunk at one time. I was putting it like periodically, you know, like a month apart, three weeks apart. So I made, you know, just the way the money flowed into the business. I made it flow back to where it came from. Okay?

Speaker 1  41:26
Because you can also, if you want to loan money to the LLC, you can do that as well. You just have to document it, and you have to have the forms filled out, and you have to, you have to charge interest on the loan. So say, for instance, you know you've been doing owner contributions, and you haven't been pulling back. You can say, Okay, I'm going to put $1,000 in the business, but this time, it's a loan. I'm personally loaning the business $1,000 and it's going to pay me back $1,200 in six months. You can do that, and you're not going to pay anything, any taxes on anything except for the 200 that you get back, because that's your profit. So you know, a lot of people just keep dumping money into a business, dumping it, dumping it, dumping it, and then they want to switch to a salary at some point. And then you know, you're paying on on the complete salary that you're making, just like you would as an employee. So, but you have to have a paper trail for that, and you have to have a contract that's that's signed and documented, and you have, you know, the money went from your bank account to the business bank account, and then, you know, you have a payback structure. It needs to be legit, but you can 100% do that.

Speaker 5  42:41
Okay, if I understand, the only thing I have not done was, I do have my books that I'm, you know, documenting that, but I didn't do it like the business that will pay me back with interest. Yeah? It flowed in, yeah. And then I made sure it loaded that,

Speaker 1  42:59
yeah, if you, if you don't, if you don't charge interest, it's not a loan, it's a contribution.

Speaker 5  43:06
Oh, really. So in that case, you just can't get it back the way you, the way you because what I'm doing right now with my bank account or business account is like, if I learned the business, or I gave the business, like, $2,000

Unknown Speaker  43:28
I mean, at some point I was bootstrapping, because

Speaker 5  43:33
the business ran out of money, and I have my personal money, and I pushed it in, and then, you know, the following month, there's that money, Just the way it flowed from my personal account into the business I rescinded back to the personal account. Is that a red flag?

Speaker 1  43:49
Yes, yes. So okay, so what it is, it's a taxable event. So when you do an owner contribution to a business, it's not a taxable event. Like you don't pay any taxes. You personally, you don't have to worry about anything like that. But anytime that money flows out of the business into your account, it's a taxable event, because essentially what you're doing is an owner draw back into your account, so you have to pay 15% taxes on that, as that's a self employment tax, because you've, you've reversed that process and brought it back. So even if you, you know, I mean, the IRS might not know about it and whatever, but like, if you ever get audited, or, you know you anything could happen, right then see that flow of money back to you. And if you didn't, if you don't include that on your taxes as income, that money coming back, then you're going to be on the hook for that 15.3% in self employment tax.

Speaker 5  44:50
So the only way to avoid that is to make the business paid back as a loan.

Speaker 1  44:56
Yeah, yeah. You can. You can do it like that, but it has to. You know you have to be legit with it. You can personally loan money to your own business. You can totally do that.

Speaker 5  45:09
How do you how do you make it like a loan when the business is is having a cash price issue, and I dumped the money from mine, like so it's the same bank, but the accounts are separate, so I just allowed the money flow into the business. So I thought, because it is, it went this direction, and it's coming back in the same direction, the same amount. It should have been like, Okay, you're returning the money that you took from the business, from your personal back to the personal.

Speaker 1  45:50
Yeah, it just doesn't work like that. Like you you the IRS, if they come and they're going to look at those bank statements, and all they're going to see is that money flowed out of the business and into your personal account, and that's going to be a taxable event, and it's going to look like you're not reporting all of your income if you don't report that. However, if you have documentation that shows that you loaned money, say, $1,000 to your business, and it paid you back with some interest. The only taxable event is the interest that they pay you back. That's what you made. But you have to, like, you can go on Chad, GPT, and you can say, create a form, a loan document, where I'm loaning money to a business and I want them to pay. I'm going to loan this much. I want them to pay it back within this much. Here's the payback structure. Here's the schedule, whatever, and you have all of that documented, and you'll have a paper trail too, so you'll have that. You have the, you know, then the IRS will see the money that you put in there, then they'll see the money that you got back. And then, you know, you just pay a little bit of taxes. But you can't ever pull money out of a business into your personal account without it being a taxable event

Unknown Speaker  47:08
of some sort.

Speaker 1  47:13
It's just, just think about like it's the same thing as anytime, if you work for someone else, anytime they pay you, it's taxable regardless, like you might have loaned your boss 500 bucks, or it might give him 500 bucks, and he just like, well, I'll pay you back, but I'll do it through pay. I'll put an extra 500 on the payroll. Shows up to the IRS, just like your regular payroll this. It's the same kind of concept, right? But we think, because, you know, it's still us, it's our business, our personal accounts. You know, we think we can move that back and forth, but you can't. That's where you get into problems.

Unknown Speaker  47:47
Jesus, oh my gosh.

Unknown Speaker  47:52
Okay, so I would just

Speaker 1  47:55
say the next time you do if you need to give money to your business, do those documents? Loan it to your business if you're planning on pulling it right back, because really, that's what you're doing. It's a loan. It wasn't an owner contribution. Owner contribution, you put in the business, you don't pull it back. That's what an owner contribution is. But if you're if you're planning on just loaning it, then, then loan it and put some interest on it and make it reasonable interest too. Don't put it as like point, 00001, or something like that. You know. Go, look at the rates. Put it at 6% 7% something that makes sense. Okay.

Speaker 5  48:31
Um, then my other thing is, when I started out, I was having issues with getting license for the business. And there was a mistake at some point, and then the IRS said, Hey, what tax form are you electing for? And I have failed thinking I was doing an escort, but it turned out like I had accidentally feel the sick or so when I got that back, after a long time of fighting to get, you know, that documentation back, I wasn't ready to go through all over when I realized it was a sequel, I said, You know what, I'm just going to move on with this. I'm not going back. So after the small business, it got like, because I listened to what you said. You said, if you make certain income, okay, you can do an LLC, or you can do a C Corp, and you do an S corp. I'm looking at the, you know, income bracket that I for later with the business. It doesn't really make sense to be a C Corp, but I didn't want to go back to, like, go through the process and depending. So would you say I should go back and fix that? Or just,

Speaker 1  49:51
well, it sounds like your business. It's not very profitable at this point. Is that correct? Say that again? Is. It is the business profitable? Is it making money right now?

Speaker 5  50:04
It is not. That's that's the problem. It is now. So prior to, prior to now, I was in a place where the insurance was the very So, like you are aware, is a medical transportation business, and the insurance was so huge, it was just dropping the money regardless of the cash flow coming in. So I got hooked up with a broker. So the flow of cash is coming in, is trickling in already, but the forecast I had going into the business, a chunk of that is eaten up by the broker being the middle man. So now I'm asking myself, like, Should I continue with this business, or should I just let it go at this point? You know? So what I'm trying to do is, hey, this business actually took a lot of my money. I just wanted to at least pay some of his debts back, pay some stuff back, you know, if I had to shut it down, definitely not right away. But I'm trying to bypass the brokers, or while I'm still waiting on the brokers, you know, using the broker system at this point to keep the cash flow going on, so that way I can cover some overhead costs soliciting other nursing home and other places to get a direct contract from them which will bypass the broker sister. So yeah, I am really at the point where I'm asking myself, like, what did I do? But I have learned a lot I have, if I have my way, right now, I believe what I would do is I didn't meet you sooner. I would have saved all of my money and not give myself this headache on the purchase of business, but now, I mean, that's because this business really, it kind of fractured me. It kind of threw me under the bus and,

Speaker 1  52:12
well, it's kind of a it's kind of right patience, because if the business is not making money, if it's not making money, then, then the fact that it's it's not structured correctly, is not going to hurt you, because it is only going to hurt you if it's making money. So if say that business was making, was making, you know, 50,000 as a C Corp, that means that the the profit the business making is getting taxed, and then the profit, and then when your salary is getting taxed, you're paying double taxes. But because it's not making money, there's really no taxable event there. There's no income to pull the taxes from. So it's not hurting you at the moment, but if you were to turn it around, and you become profitable, and you're in that, you know, zero to 75,000, range, something like that, and it's really going to cost you a lot more in taxes to afford to be a C Corp than it would if it was an LLC. So, you know, you can all, you can always create a new LLC, and then sell all the assets to that new LLC, and then just switch, switch all your bank accounts and everything, and just start fresh, like, Okay, this is what we're doing now. I mean, you could do that too.

Speaker 5  53:23
Do you can you repeat? Can you repeat that again? You said, create a new LLC. Yeah, you can create a new LLC.

Speaker 1  53:29
And then just, just buy the, have that business, buy your, you know, your, your C Corp, you know, all the assets, and just do business as the name of what your C Corp was, and then dissolve your C Corp. Okay, that might be easier. And the name can transition

Unknown Speaker  53:51
from the name can be dissolved.

Speaker 1  53:53
Well, you can, I mean, you can keep the name, but you just do a do business as sometimes they call it fictitious names. Just depends on your state, a DBA or a fictitious name, and it'd be just like if someone you know, if Ernie wants to come in and buy your business, you know, with his LLC, it's the same thing.

Speaker 5  54:10
Shane, thank you. I mean, like with all the things you explained tonight, my question is, which, if the IRA is still making us to own a business, and then we still have to, like, like, be paid a salary owner. What's, what's the real beneficial going through all the headache? Then, you know, it's like,

Speaker 1  54:37
well, I mean, at the end of the day well, but it's still better to, you know, because at the so you're as a business owner, you're making a salary, or doing an owner draw whatever. And then you the business is growing. It's getting bigger, it's getting more profitable. And then, you know, after five years, you have a. Lot of equity in the business. And, you know, you can increase your salary, decrease your salary, whatever, but, like, you're going to sell that business and you're going to get a big check at the end of that, whereas an employee, they're not going to get anything, because they, you know, they don't have any ownership in it. So it might, it's less of a headache sometimes. But, you know, we talk about wealth building strategies, and ownership is the key to wealth building. I don't care if it's ownership of real estate. I don't care if it's ownership of stocks, whatever. But like, you're not going to get wealthy as an employee, just not going to happen. You

Unknown Speaker  55:43
additional, okay, let me, let me switch this.
