Speaker 1  00:01
There are three types of people in the world when it comes to finances. The first type is the person that learns from their own mistakes. So when they started out in life, they may have financed a car and tried to keep up with the Joneses. Maybe got a little over their head in a mortgage, but they learned that that's not the way to do it. That's not the right decision when it comes to money. The second type of person is the one who learns from other people's mistakes. So maybe like yourself, they're on this platform looking for financial help, mentorship, advice on how to start investing and using their money wisely, saving things like that. And the third type of person is the one who never learns. So they put vacations on credit cards, they buy or lease a new car every few years. They throw their money away on designer things and flashy stuff, trying to keep up with everybody, trying to put a lifestyle out into the world that really they can't sustain, and they never get ahead. They just keep burying themselves in more and more debt. So what type of person are you? If you're one of the first two and you're trying to change and get out of that rut, then like and follow and we can go through these things. You can come in my lives, ask me any question on finances, because I'll tell you the truth, I was the first time I was flashy. I wanted to keep up with everybody. I I had all these, you know, things that as soon as you buy and take out of the store, they were worth half of what you paid for them. And, you know, you wear shoes or something a couple times, and they're just worthless. So I was that person. And three years ago, as a matter of fact, I was dead broke. You fast forward to now. I have short term rentals, long term rentals, multifamily. I own multiple businesses. I've acquired businesses, and I've gone from being completely broke to over a million dollars net worth. You can do the same thing. Just you just have to know how to speak the language of money. So if you're interested in changing your life and leveling up and getting smart with your money, putting it out into the world so it can bring back more money, then like and follow, stay tuned for my lives and we'll do this together. You.
