Speaker 1  00:01
Did you know that only 7% of Americans will ever own a business, and why is that? I'll tell you why. It's mainly fear. It's fear of the unknown. But what if I told you that you could hedge your bets? You could take some of the risk out of having a business by buying an existing business. You don't have to start from scratch. You don't have to come up with an idea that's fresh and new and exciting. A tech startup all this craziness that you see, you can buy a boring business that already makes money. So day one, you can step into that business and make money. These businesses could have been around for 1015, 20, sometimes 30 years service. Businesses, plumbing, electrical. One of my favorites is auto shops, tire shops. Everybody needs tires. And let me tell you something, places like that, businesses that do that kind of service a recession proof no matter what the economy is doing, everybody needs tires, no matter what the economy is doing. If your plumbing breaks and you don't know how to fix it yourself, you are going to call a plumber. That's just the reality. That's how life works. So why not jump into one of those businesses and acquire them with very little money down and change your life forever. Why aren't people doing this? Why do they fear this? I don't understand it. I have both started businesses and I've acquired businesses. Let me tell you something, it is so much easier to acquire an existing business that's already making money. You step in and day one, and you have customers, you have working capital, you have employees that are already trained and ready to go. I'm not talking about going into a business and revamping it and saving a failing business. I'm talking about getting a business where the owner is retiring they want to move on, and they don't want to see that business die. They don't want to dissolve it. They would much rather have someone like me or you acquire that business and keep it running. It's their legacy. So if you're interested in acquiring a business and you are ready to leave that daily grind like and follow and stay tuned for my lives. You.
