Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. It is April 24 2025 and this is the Q and A portion of the mentorship for the money Language Academy, alright. And we've been talking a little bit about SBA loans and just the process. And we just came off of a capital stacking class. So shoot.

Speaker 2  00:20
Tran, okay, so I'm in the middle of a deal with and it'll kind of answer a lot, or it's a lot of good pieces that I'm learning the harder way. But just starting off with Kevin's, you know, concerns, if you have a good SBA loan officer, he should be batting for you as well. And we're going through difficult terms because a specific company that I'm trying to buy, the HVAC company, is trying to do a 650,000

Unknown Speaker  00:54
half split. So 325,

Unknown Speaker  00:57
on an SBA, and 325,

Speaker 2  00:59
at a seven to eight year, or five to seven year at a seven to 8% is what they're trying to split it to make it easier on, you know, whoever's purchasing the company. And basically, since you make sure the NDA has that you could seek counsel first, because I don't want you getting in trouble talking to people, but I made sure it had Council eligibility, and I've handed off the paperwork to the SBA, and they They vetted it for me. So they'll go to the chief financial officer that's given the the money. Then they'll say, Hey, here's, here's, here's what the guy, which would be me, here's what he's earning, you know, here's all his, you know, funds and stuff like that. Here's what the business has and their liquid funds and and, yeah, and they came to the answer, and they said, Yeah, you can, you can do it for, for the amount that they're asking. So they'll, they'll pre vet you. And obviously it's not locked in, but it'll give you a better if you have both those guys on your side, it'll give you, you know, at least the warm and fuzzy that we can go forward with it, as long as you're honest with your income.

Speaker 1  02:11
You see on the listings too, a lot of times it'll say, pre qualify. SBA, pre qualified, and that's what they're talking about. They just went to someone who was an SBA lender, show them the numbers and say, Hey, do you think you could get this funded? And they say, yeah.

Speaker 2  02:23
Now the problem with this, this was the opposite. They're like, No, SBA is going to take you. And I was like, listen, well, I have a couple extra ins that may help us out. And that's why they had to, like, pre vet everything for me, because the other guy, and that was the other thing, or you're, you're, I agree, the sellers broker is not your friend. This guy, I've never met someone so rude seller's broker. He's like, you're you're a waste of my time, like you're new with business. Why even trying this? I don't want to waste my time unless you have all liquid 325,000 there's no way you could do this. And then his tone changed the moment I brought the real money to the table, essentially, you know, but money has a way of doing that. Yeah, he's super nice and in flowers and

Unknown Speaker  03:16
asking to dinner.

Speaker 2  03:19
The other thing I wanted everyone to kind of keep watch of, and I've had a little bit of a struggle, but I've been kind of powering through it, is I'm agreed with you, with the service industries, but we have to know certain qualifications before you get into it. So I don't know if it's just Arizona. I can only speak for my state, but the HVAC company requires an ROC, at least council. So either you pay somebody or give them shares, and they will create all of your all your your requests for for jobs, or you go and you have to have four years in the industry to get your your registered certificate, which means that you can, you know, write Arizona, Arizona. Yeah, so Arizona's requirement is four years within the industry, and then you take this exam to have your Roc if you're qualified. And, I don't know what every state has for years and work like that, but just know for a lot of service industries, HVAC, plumbing, like roofing, all these contract, general contracting,

Unknown Speaker  04:33
they're safe, but they do take a little more work

Speaker 2  04:37
than like laundry and pools and stuff like that.

Speaker 1  04:42
Yeah, yeah. I mean, you got to know what you're getting into. Like, I made the mistake with the property management company to begin with, not knowing, and then had to scramble to get compliant.

Unknown Speaker  04:55
So yeah, yeah, I totally agree. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  05:00
Yeah, congratulations.

Unknown Speaker  05:03
Hard learning. Yeah, we'll see.

Speaker 2  05:05
I have a meeting with the actual seller. We're trying to get the broker out of the way. So I have the meeting with the seller tomorrow

Unknown Speaker  05:13
at 5pm so we'll see

Speaker 1  05:16
nice, nice. So I mean, you did so you're in due diligence officially, and then, have you talked about a purchase agreement? Have you talked numbers? And that's

Speaker 2  05:24
why we're trying to get the broker out of the way. He's kind of a pain where, even when we asked, because right now, we're at the hard stop of my my chief loan officer says if you want to do this, you have to know that the owner or the seller won't be able to start their payment plan for two years, because we have to have our required two years of you paying us first, and then once that ends, and I guess it's like a normal thing. And then once that ends, you could start on that, that other 325, through them.

Speaker 1  05:58
Okay, that's right there. What you're talking about. I see there's a question by from Janine. So, okay, yeah, I agree. There's some proposed stuff, some proposed changes to the SBA. One of them is that this two year period, so, so if the seller wants to finance a portion of the down payment for two years, right? So what it is, it's two years, they just hold off on collecting payments, and then you start paying them. Well, the proposed changes is, is 10 years, is moving that to 10 years. So that means that the the owner could not do that, like, like, essentially, they're going to just hold on to money for 10 years, and that's the life of your SBA loan anyway, so you essentially pay the whole business off and then pay that owner after that. And owners are not going to want to do that, so it's not going to be something they're going to be into. And it hasn't changed yet. We'll see. There's been a pretty harsh backlash, because people in the industry know that that's dumb. That's actually gonna that's gonna hurt a lot of acquisitions. It's gonna hurt a lot of a lot of owners that want to sell and minimize their tax obligation as well. So we'll see where that goes. I'll try to keep up on it.

Speaker 3  07:17
But do you think, yeah, that might be a good opportunity for us to start negotiating a lot of these businesses, because there's going to be less people to be able to

Speaker 1  07:26
Yeah, yeah. I mean, the whole reason why, why Tran was just saying that the broker didn't want to talk to him is because there's, there are a lot of people out there that are tire kickers, and they go on, biz, buy, sell, and they inquire. And the the brokers are burned out. You know, they people that aren't serious and really just want to, I don't know, get the thrill of it. I don't know, the same people that go look at a house and have no intention of buying it. It's the same kind of person, right? Or they just get scared to get cold feet. Like, the less of those people that are in the market, the better it is for the buyers.

Speaker 3  08:01
For sure, would you say it is like currently, it's more of a seller's market than right now?

Unknown Speaker  08:09
That's not really like real estate,

Unknown Speaker  08:12
but demand out there?

Speaker 1  08:15
I don't think. I don't know it's tough, because I think a lot of people aren't buying too, because the volatility in the market, like just, just in the economy in general, like usually in spring, it's almost like the housing market, where there are a lot of listings that come up in the spring. And this year, I haven't seen a whole lot of new listings. I don't know if they're waiting to see what happens with the economy, waiting to see you know what tariffs are going to do. I don't know. It seems like it's a little slow on both ends. I don't know. Maybe it's just more equilibrium than one or the other. But last year, at this time, there were a lot more businesses listed in my area. Anyway, for sure,

Speaker 2  09:01
I can kind of pop, like, kind of pop into that one as well. And this only, the only reason I say this is, like I said, my best friend is kind of my little guiding light when it comes to this. But the reason why a lot of business aren't selling is because tariffs hit, and a lot of people didn't match their price raises. So there's, they show a low cash flow. So the three businesses that I even looked into, each one had, I want to say, like a 20 to 40% reduction in cash flow, because they just met their prices too late before tariffs hit. And that he said that that he's been, he's assigned over 500 loans, and he said just just last year, he saw almost all of them drop,

Speaker 1  09:44
so essentially, before they had a chance to pass that on to the consumer by raising price. Yeah, right, right.

Speaker 3  09:52
So just like the underwriting is not even making sense to fund on these business loans, right?

Speaker 2  09:58
Because the underwriters are saying, Why am I? Going to pay for a business that you're evaluating at 650 for, like this guy, same example, but you show a cash flow of 100,000 Yeah, your last two years were 300 and that's great, but we're Why did you, you know, drop so low?

Speaker 3  10:21
That makes sense. I have another question. I didn't know if that was the end of that one. What Shane, what do you do when, as far as having reserves, you bought the business, you have a, you know, your business credit lines? What do you like to have in reserves? I know you already want to purchase a business that is already cash flowing. But just in case, you know, I'm thinking more of like risk assessment, if things don't go the way they're planned, like, what kind of runway Are you kind of putting yourself until it's like, Okay, it's time to,

Speaker 1  10:58
you know, it depends on the on what you're going to buy. If you're buying a business that has a lot of employees, you need more. You're going to need a higher amount, because you have to make payroll no matter what happens, right? And any, any big thing that happens, you're going to struggle. That's going to be, you know, it's always your biggest expenses, payroll in a company like that, especially, you know, we're talking about service industry, you generally have a lot of employees, unless you're doing a laundromat or, you know, some kind of, you know, coin machines, you know, vending machine, that type stuff. But so if you have business, you have the ability to get business credit cards. It's not an issue, right? Because if you, if you have, like, for instance, what we just talked about, the capital stacking, you've got 2550 grand sitting there that you didn't have to use. So say, for instance, Joe, if Joe gets 80,000 he puts $50,000 down in a business, he's got 30 grand that he can work with, right? And the utilization doesn't matter. It doesn't hurt you. You can, you you know, Max those credit cards out. It's not going to hurt your personal credit so on. When we, I don't know if you've seen some of the other videos, when we put it into the spreadsheet, usually put at least 5% as working capital across the less, like a baseline, and then you would adjust that up and down depending on, you know, for one, like, how much is your cash flow? Is it? Is it thin as far as, like, you're close to 1.25 DSCR, or is it like two or three, where you're not really worried about it? Did you get a really high interest rate from the SBA at 10, or did you go to a traditional bank, put 20 down and get a lower interest rate for you know, it just depends on very relative but at least 5% I always try to at least put 5% in there, and I just tack it on in the spreadsheet when I'm looking at those numbers. Okay, before you actually so, so you're starting all these bank accounts, you're starting all this stuff from scratch. When you buy one, it's going to take a while for all that stuff to filter in, all those payments to come in, you know, and you're going to have vendors that still want their money before, before, you know, everything comes in, because most owners are not going to leave anything in any bank account for you. You can negotiate it, but just comes off the top of the price anyway. So what's the point? Usually, they're going to shut their bank accounts down. They're going to take all their take all their money with them, and they're going to take off, you know, walk into the wild blue yonder. This is their dream, Meg, but so you just have to keep yourself afloat for 30 to 60 days. Because if you bought the right one, the money will come in. Because it has never stopped coming in for 10 years, seven years, whatever.

Unknown Speaker  13:42
Okay, five. You said 5% of working capital, 5%

Speaker 1  13:45
of what, like, the price, purchase, price, okay, price. Got it. And if you, if you look at some of the previous mentorships where we're actually analyzing, you'll see it's, it's actually, there's a section on the analyzer where you can put that number in that percentage, and it defaults to five. I think,

Speaker 3  14:10
okay, yeah, I probably, I haven't seen that one yet. I just, I just joined, like, three days ago or something, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  14:17
And some of those, I probably don't have great descriptions on the early ones. I've been trying to put better descriptions on the newer ones. All good. So Janine did. Did I answer your question? I know you said and said, Any seller that provides financing will still be able to own a portion of the company. Correct? So one of the proposed changes Janine is that say the owner wants to sell you 90% of the business, and they retain 10% one of the changes that are proposed are that that owner would have to go on the loan. They would have to also go on the loan, personally guarantee it so you. If that goes through those you know, ownership retention strategies no longer work because no owner is going to do that. You know, they want to sell, they'll stick around, they'll do training, they'll do stuff like that. They'll come visit, but they don't want to be on the hook if something bad happens.

Speaker 4  15:21
Yes, but I think I mixed those two together. I kind of was putting my kids to bed in the beginning. So thank you very much for clarifying.

Speaker 1  15:30
Yeah, no problem, no problem. We'll see what happens when there's chaos, there's opportunity, and as long as you have all the information and you can, you can still execute a lot of times that you know, when there's blood in the water, that's that's when it's best to swim. It just depends.

Unknown Speaker  15:51
Shane, when real estate is involved, how long

Speaker 5  15:55
are, is the business and the real estate in one type of loan, or is the real estate separate, and how long are those? You know, time to repay that usually, because I know that the SBA loan for the business by 10 years, but it seems like the other one with,

Speaker 1  16:12
yeah, with real estate, it's 25 to 30, but as long as, as long as the business takes up 51% of the real estate. So that's what makes you qualify for it's still one loan, and it's one payment, and it's amortized for 25 to 30. So that's why it can be advantageous to, you know, to get real estate, because, you know, it appreciate you get the tax benefits, you get all the stuff that comes with it, and the stretched out amortization period. But, you know, real estate's expensive too, so you got to crunch those numbers. And I would never want to buy a business that is not good for real estate. That is good, you know, I want to make sure that the business is solid on its own and the real estate's good. Because if you ever wanted to, you could, you could buy the business and the real estate, and then sell the real estate and keep the business. And they could be your landlord. There's so much that you can do. Or you can sell the business to someone later and keep the real estate and then use the other 49% as you know, storage, whatever you want to do. But yeah, and they both need to make sense on their own, but, but yeah, it's one loan,

Unknown Speaker  17:19
okay, yeah,

Speaker 3  17:22
51% of of the loan that you're taking out, or like, the actual square footage of the

Unknown Speaker  17:27
square footage, Yep,

Speaker 1  17:30
yeah, the SBA Wilkins will not fund it if it's less than 51% Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  17:47
What's the worst case scenarios

Unknown Speaker  17:51
for buying the business?

Speaker 1  17:53
Buying a business? Yeah, well, it depends on how you're buying it. So there's a couple. I watched a video the other day, and somebody bought the reason why it came I probably came across my feed is because it's auto repair, right, and that's one of my favorite businesses out there, and he had just bought it, and someone had been in a car crash the week before, and they didn't. The owner didn't tell him anything about it. He was buying it from with with a stock sale, which means he was assuming their business entity. So he was the ownership of the LLC was being transferred to him, so he's the business is doing great. Six months later, he gets served with paperwork, million dollar lawsuit. Wow, he had no idea about it, and there's nothing he can do. The old owner is completely indemnified, because they have nothing to do with the LLC anymore. So that's pretty scary. That's what makes me like, you know, asset sales better than stock sales for situations like that. So that's that's one thing that can go wrong. Another thing that you have to be very careful with if, if you're wanting an absentee business, is that who you're relying on to be your manager, or the group of people that are going to be your manager and your go to people are going to stay. You know, just because somebody's there now, they might be best friends with the owner that doesn't you know the owner leaves, they might leave. So you have to be able to sit down and talk to them and make sure that they're going to be around you can. You can make sure you know that it's worth their while. And you know, but I spend so say, this auto repair shop like I've gone there every week for the last five weeks, at least once a week, and just hang out. You know, I just go there and hang out, and I talk to the managers, and I talk to the employees, and I just watch what's going on. You don't always get that kind of access, but when you can, it's great because and they don't even know I'm going to buy it. I got a hardcore NDA, I can't talk about it. I'm just a consultant that's helped you. Know, that's, that's what I had to agree with, with the owner. I'm a consultant that I'm coming in to help them with, you know, systematize things. So I'm hoping to get past that really soon, so I can explain to them that, hey, I know I'm going to buy this, and I want you to be the person that that's the the GM, and I'm going to rely on you, and I'm going to make sure that you're paid well. And you know, if they're a little shaky, when you talk to them, you have that conversation, then you can talk about phantom equity, which is, you can say, hey, you know, after I buy this, I'll give you 2% equity, Phantom equity in this. So the business does well. You do well. That means at the end of the year, I make 100,000 I give you 2000 1000. I give you 2000 but it's phantom equity, which means that if you ever leave, it comes back to me. So it's not it's not so it incentivizes them to stay and to perform. So that's a great tool that you can use to retain the manager if they're really good. So that's another risk, and then the other one is, like, you just missed something, you know, or, like you bought something, like, you're reliant on some big piece of equipment, and it goes out, you know. I mean, it happens all the time with laundromats, or, like, if you buy a screen printing shop, those things are very expensive and it breaks down, you know, making money. Who's got to pay for it, you know?

Speaker 3  21:28
And let's say something like that does break down. You miss something. Or that would the main guy leaves, or girl leaves. Obviously, you got to scramble and try to make something happen. Is there a moment where you're like, all right, you know, I'm just, I'm, I'm gonna just abort mission, and I'm out the like, that you're just, that's probably worst case scenario, right? You're out your down payment and the loan, right? You still

Speaker 1  21:53
and loan, yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, you would have to try to sell that. It's, it's like a foreclosure, and whatever you can get for it, you know, you're, you're on the hook for the difference so, but you, you know, in a situation where the manager leaves, if you have to step in, you know, you're the one that's got to keep it afloat, but you should have more than one person that can run it. That's why I say seven employees, seven years. There's always one, but usually there's somebody else that's been there for a year or two. You know, they know how things work, you know. And they become your your second person, in case that something happens, because, you know, your manager could get sick, you know, you have to have redundancy in place in a small business, you have to like, I don't, I don't care if it's like, so I was just having a conversation in one in another auto repair shop, the one, one that I own, and he want the manager, wanted to bring in a parts department guy that lives in his neighborhood, and he's like, you know, we'll carpool together. And he's a great guy. We need a parts manager. And I was like, no, no, we're not doing that. Because I don't, I don't like the the nepotism of that, because one, if they get an argument, it makes it weird. At work, they're carpooling to work every day they get in a wreck. What happens if the number one guy and the number two person for the business get in a car wreck, or their car breaks down, or whatever? The doors don't open, you know, so things like that. I don't, I don't want all of my eggs in one basket, and I so I'm very particular about about that. I don't want, you know, two brothers working there. I don't want best friends working there. It's, it's a place of business, and you come there and you work, and you go home and you make good money, and it should be a good and healthy environment for everybody, but at the same time, it is a business, and like, I can't, I can't afford for something to happen to where the door shut down for very long, because I, I'm not, I'm not willing to go work, you know, 40 hours a week there. I can't. There's, there's just no way like it. I have to have those redundancies in place. And after I've been there for a while and owned them for a while, like a year, year and a half, then there are three people that are qualified. You know, I make sure that, like everything gets written down. Standard procedures get written down. Hiring procedures get written down. We keep we start creating a database of this is how this business runs. So if somebody is fairly new and like, Okay, it's time for inventory. It's time for whatever. It's all written down. They can follow the script for how to do it. They might not do a great job, but they can get it done. But that comes with time. But you just got to be able to weather the storm for the first 90 days, like, okay, there's a you know, it's going to be shaky. They're going to be scared. They're going to be timid. They're going to think, well, you're going to come in and fire half of the people, and you're going to bring new people in. Are you going to do this and that? So those are all conversations that you have to have with the employees, because they're the heart and soul of the business.

Speaker 3  25:02
Yeah, it's a lot, like you mentioned that they've gone a lot before. It's a lot of upfront work, but then it's like, yeah, it's just kind of smooth sailing. You know,

Speaker 1  25:12
there'll be things that come up, but, but so do, like, once you get past the first really, the first month, things, things start sailing. It's kind of downhill, but that first month is rough. There's, there's a lot of because you don't know either you know, especially if you don't, you've never owned a business, you've never dealt with employees, you never dealt with payroll, you never dealt with bookkeeping. Like, there's a lot for you to learn. It's like it's drinking from a fire hose of information. It's, it's a lot, but it is doable. And as long as that manager has been there doing it, it makes it way easier, because you're just going to do like your first one, you're going to do what they do, like I want, I want to pick this up exactly how you were, were running, like, I'm not going to make any big changes. You learn their process. You make sure everything's smooth, everything's going then you can start improving here. And

Speaker 3  26:15
so, you know, I just always compare it to like, real estate or multifamily. It's like things come, come up with your rental, right? It's like you still got to put out fires every once a while, but return on your energy for this is just, you know, so

Speaker 1  26:30
much bigger, yeah, so much bigger. Like, I've had to, you know, spend Christmas Day changing water heaters, you know, in rentals, that's not fun, you know, but I'm not gonna leave a family without hot water on Christmas. You know? It's that's part of it too, right? You're ultimately, when you own a business, there are employees and families that depend on you, and that's a lot of responsibility. So doesn't matter what's going on, if it's something serious, you have to take care of it. See, Brooke. Brooke says, I just reviewed one where the manager has been there for 34 years, and all the others three to five. That makes me think that that person is likely going to retire soon, probably, probably that if that person's been there with the owner for over 30 years, I mean, they probably want to retire as well. They don't want, you know, a new owner, to come in, start making waves. I would say that it's likely that they would. However, if they have been there for 34 years, they're probably a boomer. They're probably really stuck in and set in their ways with how the old owner did things. They would probably be an obstacle to your ownership anyway. So I would in that kind of situation, I would have somebody that's in that five year mark, I would be vetting them as a GM, not that one. It's been no, it depends, you know, if you talk to the person, they're excited about the change, whatever, but more than likely, they're probably gonna, they're gonna burn out too.

Speaker 2  28:12
Yeah, Shane, I had a another nightmare case to mention, just because that's a big learning curve with I don't know why this one sale as being such a big learning curve. But like you said, a lot of sellers don't want to even do the two year. This one came back and said that, and his proposal was the purchase of the 325 at I would be a 49% owner, and he would be a 51% owner, and that's what I'm trying to vet. And thank God I have my friend to, like, bounce ideas off. And he says, No, it's a terrible idea, yeah, because now the guy, he could either block you from doing business, or block you from decisions, or even, like, take employees and things. There's so many nightmarish situations. But even if he's a 49% if we flip and pop this, this could still not be a great deal, unless he put things in writing. So things like that could also turn a business into like a nightmare. Yeah.

Speaker 1  29:18
I mean, he seems like he's pretty stubborn and but all this, the intricate, like conditions that you're talking about right now, is exactly why you need an attorney at the last phase. You know, when you when you hit the purchase agreement phase, things get real things. You know, you start signing paperwork that that means that, hey, this is happening. I can't, I can't back out. Sometimes you can, but it depends on and again, if you don't set up the purchase agreement correctly, you know you're you're really screwed, like no matter what happens, you can't back out. So you got to have an attorney that that has been there and done that can keep. You safe, and it's well worth the money. I don't they, yeah, they're 300 bucks an hour, but it's worth it, because, you know you're going to end up paying about $3,000 probably about 10 hours work, for the purchase agreement, for the consultations and everything.

Unknown Speaker  30:18
But you know, it's, it's, it's totally worth it.

Unknown Speaker  30:22
Do you have referrals for attorneys for that, I

Speaker 1  30:28
just have a local one. I don't have, like, a national one that I use. But, I mean, I don't know if he, if he would go out of state, but, you know, I keep everything within 200 miles of where I'm at, you know? So, yeah, I'm not sure, like, you can how, even, how I found this one. I just, I just reached out to business attorneys. Most of them didn't even call me back, shockingly, and like, I don't know how people stay in business, because they just, they're, they're terrible with their customer service. But so I ended up talking to three different ones, and I basically, I told him, like, this is what I do. These are the kind of acquisitions I like. Like, what have you, what have you done? What's your experience in the field? And this guy, the one that I settled on, he was like, Well, you know, I have done 10s of millions in acquisitions. Been doing it for 15 years. He said anything from and he started naming off local businesses, like, we sold this, we sold this hotel, you know, my client bought this. I was like, Okay, well, you're the guy for sure. And he's been great every time I've reached out to him. He's been available, like those kind of things. If you if you reach out to an attorney and you don't hear anything back for weeks, no way.

Speaker 5  31:47
I'll say this to Shane, my my sister in law's an attorney, not in this, not in this discipline, but they tend to have pretty close networks as well. So even if it's in a different state, your contact may know of other people who are reputable in other places, because they tend to kind of know each other. They're alumni from the same place or whatever.

Unknown Speaker  32:05
That's a great point. I'm going to ask them.

Unknown Speaker  32:10
And if there is somebody, maybe

Unknown Speaker  32:15
you're in California, right, right?

Unknown Speaker  32:19
Are you in the Bay Area. Me, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  32:23
oh, Southern California, closer to San Diego.

Speaker 3  32:27
Okay, so in between LA and San Diego, I

Unknown Speaker  32:33
mean, there's some national chain, like chains of

Unknown Speaker  32:37
firms, but they're going to be way more expensive, way more.

Unknown Speaker  32:47
What do you think of I don't

Speaker 3  32:50
know if this has been up for so doctors, offices, insurance, anything insurance related. What I was thinking too is like auto insurance, homeowners insurance companies,

Speaker 1  33:03
yeah, well, I mean, so any anything that's medical, yeah, you pretty much can't, like, you have to be licensed states to even to own a clinic, you know, not be hands on whatsoever. You can have just the regulations are very intense. So I don't even look at those anymore every time I've looked into it. You know, if you have a medical background, it can be good. But like, insurance, I'm pretty sure that just about anybody, as long as you're, like, not a felon or something like that, like, you can, you can get into insurance. There's some franchises that are available right now, like I know, all my rentals, I just wish them all to goose head. Every single one we went through goose head to get all the insurance, because it was almost half of what we were paying for the, you know, last year. And because they use AI, they, you know, it's all online. It's not brick and mortar. They're not paying a bunch of employees. They can just do it way cheaper. So those franchises, I've seen those available, and I didn't see anything in the listings about certifications or anything that doesn't mean anything, but I think you could get an insurance. I don't own any. I don't I haven't actually looked into it too much, but I think it would be a great industry, as long as it's not a brick and mortar. I think those are dying.

Speaker 5  34:26
I know a little bit about that. I end up getting insurance license in Oklahoma, and it seems like almost every little piece dealing with the industry, at least here, you have to have some sort of license, some sort of insurance connection, so, and this is just a guess, so I'm not, I'm not saying I know, but the way the regulation is in California, I couldn't, I couldn't expect Oklahoma to have more of a regulation than California's and New York's, so it'd be something to look into. It. Than it is, because it's just, I would, I would, as a guest, probably think that they have some sort of stipulation where you have to have some sort of license already in the insurance

Speaker 1  35:11
first stage. Ask, ask chat, GPT, like, that's the easiest way to, like, the low hanging fruit of, yeah, there's definitely regulation. It'll, it'll pick it up. Now, if it's kind of vague, and the answer it gives you, then you look further, but that's, that's the first, the first way to go. It'll, it'll tell you, like, you just, you just, you know, what licenses are required to sell insurance in California, like it's or to own an insurance, a company that sells insurance, you know, because that that's different than actually selling insurance, yeah?

Speaker 3  35:47
Because you could have someone basically hang their license just like a broker kind of thing, right? Like you do with your property management company, you're just basically paying someone to just have their license there so you can have a broker, yeah?

Unknown Speaker  36:02
Yeah. Chachi BT is

Unknown Speaker  36:04
great resource for sure.

Speaker 5  36:06
Yeah, it does lie, though. I'll say that I've done I've caught it. I've caught it about some things, tested stuff with games and all this kind of stuff that I know the answer to. And my son works in it as well. He caught it lying about certain things. It was funny because he asked it, you know, why am I paying whoever developed this thing $40 a month or whatever, for you to provide me with Bs answers? What am I getting from this? The funny thing was, the first thing it said was because I, because I, because I can confidently communicate bullshit to you. I don't think AI is totally where it needs to be, but it would be for a lot of low hanging, because I agree.

Speaker 1  36:44
Well, it'll show you the sources, though, some of them don't, but chat GPT will have the source that it references. So if you you get the answer, then you can go double check where it came from and make sure. But yeah, it's just a quick way to get it. Like, I don't google anything anymore. I just chat GPT it, because it's using all the same stuff that Google's using, just presenting it in a different way. Yeah, yeah. I think, I think I don't know. I've been considering, if they didn't already have a goose head near me, I would consider getting into that. I think that's a great business model. And so the people that I know in my area that are also landlords, they're all switching. So I don't know how you know State Farm and American family and Allstate, I don't, I just don't see how they stay in business. They're going to have to switch their model to something similar. You

Unknown Speaker  37:43
Yeah, but you said no franchises, right? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  37:47
yeah. I saw the ad for it, yeah.

Speaker 6  37:51
Quick question, how do you deal with hiring? Let's say, if you purchase like a car repair business, and then someone leaves because the mechanics, they have to have a license, right? So do you like, in the future, once the transition will happen, like, do you hire yourself? Or do you like, reach out to like? Do you outsource it to like agency? Or, how does it work?

Unknown Speaker  38:16
I know I never use

Speaker 1  38:19
an agency like, I haven't had to, but the size of the businesses and the industries that I'm in there, so, like, especially auto repair, they know a good mechanic somewhere, they worked with a good mechanic at this other place, and this person's looking to change. Usually it's that kind of situation, because it's, you know, you all your mechanics don't have to be certified either. You just have to have some that are certified for the big job. So usually, like, it'll be set up to you've got the main core group of very experienced mechanics, and then you have some younger ones that are doing tires and lube and oil change, the easier stuff, as they're learning and trying to work towards their certification. So it's almost like having a farm club and baseball, you're building internal talent, but it's a lot of it's referral, but I'm very careful, like I said earlier about the referrals. I don't want somebody's brother, I don't want somebody's cousin. I just want somebody that you know, if they are good and somebody's worked with them, that's great. Otherwise, you know, I would want them to be certified. I don't want them to say, you know, I do it my spare time and I'm ready to do the hard stuff. But, yeah, I've never had to use employment agencies like I don't. I don't, I don't remember ever using, No, I've never had to. I've listed jobs, you know, all like on Indeed, and stuff like that, definitely done that. But so I guess that's not, that's a that's not an agency, though.

Speaker 5  39:52
Yeah, I didn't even, I've worked in the recruiting space for three decades. I would not use an agency, and I just don't see the value in it, because at the end of the day. Uh Ernie, you're going to end up having to make the decision whether you're hiring the person or not anyway they can find you, quote, unquote, qualified people. But for you know, data will show you how to people, how to most people, find the jobs that are outside of referrals they're just getting online and, you know, doing Google searches, and it throws them over to indeed or or LinkedIn, depending on what level of type of a person that you're looking for, whether it's professional or kind of a blue collar trades type person. So, I mean, I'm with Shane, I'd say, hey, you know, put something up on Indeed, put the qualifications. If you don't know what the qualifications are, you could ask the people working in that facility, and then just go get a job description off something like chat GPT, and say, okay, and then just validate those things. You can still do background check type stuff and validate that they really have it. But even if you, even if you were to go to an agency and then you like the person many times, you're going to have to buy them out and pay a penalty for hiring the person ahead of the time that they were going to be under kind of a contract for you for about six months or so. If the person comes in there and they're a superstar, you're going to want to get them and secure them to a full time job, because if you don't, they're looking for other opportunities, because they're only working as essentially a temporary type of a person. So to me, I don't, I don't, I don't get it. I think a lot of companies will say, well, they're they're lowering their risk because they're not having to pay all these benefits. But most of the sizes of the businesses that we're looking to buy, you're not having to do all this stuff with healthcare and everything else anyway. So just go indeed and and do it yourself.

Speaker 1  41:33
Yeah, I mean, over the years, whether it was tech or just for the businesses that I own, like I've done hundreds of interviews at this point. Like Tech, I can confidently interview anybody on just about anything and know if they know what they're talking about. Some of the other things, like, I don't know necessarily, the questions to ask a qualified mechanic to to to see if they're qualified. Now, the other mechanics in there. Do you know, a mechanic that's not related to the situation. I'll bring them in, and they'll talk about whatever, like, Oh, if you ever, you know, change the rear end. No, no, blah, blah, blah, you know, whatever it is, like, I'm relying on them to to do the technical, the skill part of the interview, and I'll take care of, you know, the personality stuff. Like, are they going to be a good employee? Are they going to fit the culture? Are they going to cause problems? Are they going to be reliable, like, that kind of stuff. Like, you have to be able to read people. I don't care what business you're going into. I don't whatever. You have to be able to read people to be able to buy the business. You have to be able to read people to keep it. And you have to be able to read people to grow it. It's just like one of the best skills you can ever have, and it's not necessarily salesmanship. It's just like you trust people, but you verify what they say. And, you know, I don't know, it's a lot of it's a feeling, and I've made a lot of mistakes in hiring in the past, but more than, more times than not, we've got good hires.

Speaker 5  43:00
I'd say bringing those other people in, doing it too is going to help, you know, build the morale around that team too, because they're like, Okay, it's just you don't have this owner coming here thinking they're know it all knowing good and well, he didn't know anything about X, Y or Z, so you're including them in that process. And it shows that you value their their abilities and judgment and everything else. So it's kind of a win. Win. Yeah, absolutely.

Speaker 2  43:23
Hey, Shane, that might actually be a good thing for the community as well, like a trust but verify kind of situation where we could put, like, a post on, you know, just like we did on what, what purchases we're doing. A lot of us have experience in other, you know, in other sectors. So like, for instance, when I was in the army, I did medical service, so I know hospitals in and out if you're a nurse or medical aid, if you're a doctor, I know how to call BS really quick. And then I moved into the construction industry, so and on the same you know? So, yeah, I agree with Kevin, you obviously, oh, you should always put your trust in your employees, and you'll gain it back. But Trust, but verify. So if you want to bounce it off of one of us and say, hey, you know this is what we got back. Do you, you know? Are you in agreeance, or can you give us some nuggets on your own?

Unknown Speaker  44:18
Yeah, I, I wrote,

Speaker 1  44:21
I wrote, I wrote it down, actually, Shane, if you can post it, if you post like, hey, this has been, this is my area of expertise. You know, what is everybody else? You know? What's your background like, I know, like, Gina definitely with the trucking, like, hardcore experience in that industry. Janine with ATMs. You know, we got several real estate people, Kevin with recruiting, like we've got people with decades of experience. So, yeah, I think that's a great idea. So if you post it, and then just, I guess that would be a general and then. Know, I'll add I'll add a comment, and everybody can just add a comment. We can start building that. That's a great idea. I'll do that right now. Then right anybody else got any questions? This was good stuff. Like, I'm always uncertain, like, who's going to show up and what we're going to talk about, but they've been great every time. What. Shane, I would love to learn more about wholesaling, considering the FHA is about to update their terms on foreclosures. Okay, I haven't. I haven't seen Eric in a while. I was hoping to, like, bring him in one of these days for wholesaling because, I mean, he's been doing it for a long time at this point, but I'm not sure. I mean, we can always talk about it, but, I mean, I'd rather somebody that's I haven't wholesaled, I've bird dogged. That's about as close as I've gotten. But, like, it's not been something I've sourced our off market deals, but never actually wholesaled. But I'll reach out to him and see what, see if he's willing to do that. Yeah, there's a lot of, I mean, FHA is changing. The SBA is changing. So many things are changing. Who knows? Who knows what, what things are going to bring in the next 90 days? I mean, it could be really good and really bad at the same time. But if you're, if you're staying current on the information, you can just be a first mover before anybody else even realize what's happened, you know, and that That's huge, that's huge, that's a huge benefit. Yeah, no problem. Gina, okay, well, awesome. Um, not sure what we're going to talk about next week. Yet we'll see how it goes. Maybe if there's more SBA changes or whatever, we might get into that. But yeah, thanks everybody. This was this was great, and I will see you on the tiktoks.

Unknown Speaker  47:21
Thank you. Yeah, thanks. Shane,

Unknown Speaker  47:23
thank you. Bye, bye, bye.
