Speaker 1  00:02
Hello, everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It's Thursday, November 13, and we're going to move to the mentorship portion. So I'm just going to open it up. If anybody has any questions. We just finished a real estate partnership class. So if anybody has any questions on anything, Have you have you guys found any new businesses to look at? How's the hunting going? I know, I know patients had found one last week. We're waiting here back. What about the restaurants? How are the restaurants going?

Unknown Speaker  00:41
Um, long stories so,

Speaker 2  00:46
um, back to looking at the big one. Um, kind of a question for you. So I had Randy look at the numbers for the 4,000,001

Unknown Speaker  00:58
he came back with a pro forma of 1.1

Speaker 2  01:03
million the when I told the broker that because he kind of he wanted me to go in the range of like 4.3 million to 4.5 because they have offers above that, and the listed SDE annualized of 1.4 million would justify that. But if I go based on what Randy says the 1.1 it wouldn't make sense. And when I told the broker that he straight up, just said, your CPA is wrong, like he doesn't know what he's talking about, and I don't know, what have you done performance with Randy, yeah,

Speaker 1  01:42
and he's been, it's been almost spot on, yeah. What I like about the way he does it, he's, he's accounting for costs being higher, which, I mean, it doesn't look like at any time in the near future that inflation is going to go in the other direction. Or, I mean, everything's still crazy expensive and continues to rise. Employment costs become more expensive. Like, yeah, he, I like how he accounts for those things that can happen. And I always I want a very conservative pro forma. The last thing you want is a,

Unknown Speaker  02:19
you know, kind of a willy nilly, like,

Speaker 1  02:22
silver lined pro forma. You want one that's going to be a little pessimistic. So, so if it you know, if it the business, you know, goes above and beyond, that's awesome. But like, to me, that's my baseline, like, Okay, if things just carry on, like, exactly like they are, and even though a couple of things go wrong, but you know, it's not a disaster. This is what my numbers should baseline at. And then then I go from there. But if he Well, if I mean, so this is a CPA that's been doing it for 25 years. So if he has a different person that you know will do a pro forma, then see, see if they'll do one, and then you can take it back to Randy and be like, Randy, why is this one so much higher? Are they trying to just get me, you know? But I mean, I would definitely believe Randy over whatever that broker says. Yeah. Broker just wants to sell. And if they have, they already have offers right now, over you said, over 4.4

Speaker 2  03:28
over 4.25 so he told me, realistically, being the range of 4.3 to 4.5 depending on if we want to stand by now,

Speaker 1  03:40
I wouldn't even know if I would believe that they want to sell. And they've been trying this, and they got a deal. They got an offer right now for 4.25 Yep.

Speaker 2  03:50
Well, they're, they're kind of accepting offers bids, and they, I mean, when you this was over email conversation, you kind of just told me they're not going to accept 4 million. Have a good day. And that was we haven't spoken since then. I mean, I'm willing to lose a deal. I'm not dying for that specific deal. It's still pretty big. Would scare me more than the other one,

Unknown Speaker  04:13
yeah, but I

Speaker 2  04:15
don't know. I'll probably just trust Randy. I mean, it has gone down like 5% year after year, nothing major, but factoring that in with the labor and all that, because he did mention that, that's part of why you made it to them.

Speaker 1  04:30
Yeah, I think. And then you can also, you know, crunch those numbers and see if it services the debt. If Randy's numbers are right, what's your cash flow after you service the debt? If you do pay 4.4

Speaker 2  04:46
Yeah, it's around 600 which is going to be the same as another deal I have for 2 million cash flowing 800 for the debt. Yeah. Um, that deal, actually, it was one of the first deals I was looking at. It fell out of contract because they couldn't get a bank to approve it. But they only tried one bank, like a really big I think it was Huntington, which may not be very restaurant friendly, which is, I actually have the broker having a meeting with the seller tomorrow to try to convince them to let me do it with the loan brokers, because they think they can get it approved, but just they've failed to get it through one bank, so their contract fell through, and that one I like more than the bigger deal, not as much cash flow, but still a great amount. You know

Speaker 1  05:43
well, that that. So the big deal if, if you, if your cash flow is 1.1 and you pay the four four, what's your DSCR?

Speaker 2  05:55
I think it was around biz love, if they'll pull it up. I know it was above like 2.3 they're all going to be above 2.2 at that kind of scale. Yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  06:10
It just seems a little expensive, though.

Speaker 2  06:14
Yeah, it is. The only reason I like that one a lot is they're only open five hours a day, if I opened it during lunch, I mean, obviously that's a major increase to the revenue.

Speaker 1  06:28
But are they, are they only open that amount of time because they don't want, they just don't want the hours, or because they can't sustain it, like there's not enough they want to justify it.

Speaker 2  06:40
Okay? It's a very touristy area, like it's, I don't think that's the concern. They're, like, 7080, years old. They just don't want to deal with that hassle

Unknown Speaker  06:54
of the DSCR.

Speaker 2  06:59
I can't find it. I know the DSCR for this one, the 2 million deal is 3.01

Unknown Speaker  07:06
if I pay for price,

Speaker 2  07:08
that's a good one. Only thing is I got a second loan broker. My first loan broker does big banks, all that kind of stuff. The second one does smaller local banks, state regional banks, and I keep hearing the same thing for everyone you know, don't go into restaurants, don't go into food. Sounds familiar every time I hear from a different person, you know, it kind of rings a bit more in me? Yeah. So that kind of leads into my follow up, what was like the first business you bought? And what kind of businesses do you own, if you're willing to share like, because I I'm looking more into like, electrical and roofing and, you know, like a glass manufacturing but I'm really worried to get into something I don't have a background in. And I know you said it's possible, I don't know how would like learn that, so I'm kind of wondering how you did it.

Speaker 1  08:13
So the very first business I bought was a property management company. I didn't know a lot of about, I mean, I just knew very little about being a landlord in general. But I didn't know anything on the business side, really, how it even worked, what the business model was, or anything. I just, I knew that it was a good deal and I was going to just figure it out. Really, it really, if you're going to buy a business that you don't know a lot about, then that General Manager and that that previous owner become even more important than they are in a in the other deal, because you need to know not just how they run the business, but how the business runs, and how those types of businesses run. So in a situation like that, you know you might want to negotiate 60 days where the old owner stays on to help you, and you know you want to be able to talk to that, that person who's going to be your GM. Were they in on all the decisions from the, you know, old ownership, or did they only just do little bit of stuff? Did they do payroll? Did they do anything with the books that you know, in those situations too, you know, do do they have a dedicated bookkeeper, you know, who's balancing everything, who's paying the taxes, who's paying the the sales tax, like, whatever it is you need to you need to find that stuff out and if, but you also just have to be willing to learn it. It's like drinking from a fire hose, and it's going to be stressful and it's going to be scary, but you can totally do it. And there's so many resources out there that will help you. Like, say you don't, you don't know how to, like, for instance, pay sales tax. So you pay sales tax generally quarterly. So you're collecting all the sales tax, and every quarter, you're going to pay 10s of 1000s of dollars to the state government to cover that sales tax. You know, if you haven't owned a business and you haven't done it before. You don't know how to do it. You don't know how that actually works. But there's so much, there's PDFs out there on all the state sites that tell you exactly how to do it. You can schedule a one on one call with the representatives that do nothing but help people learn how to do that, because they know it's not something that people know. You don't learn that in school. You just figure it out, or somebody shows it to you at some point. But you know, a lot of it's just attitudinal. If you have the right personality and the attitude like I will probably make some mistakes, but I'm willing to get in there and look stupid for 30 to 60 days, until I get the hang of it, then you can, you can totally do it like the very first auto repair shop. I had no idea. I didn't know how that how the software worked. I didn't know, you know how, like warranty jobs, when people could have like a warrant, like car shield, or something like that, and their engine goes out like I had no idea how the day to day worked at all, but I just I figured it out. And whenever I had questions, I would ask the manager, I would ask the owner, the previous owner, and then I just started writing everything down and getting that playbook going. And that's the same playbook we use for every repair shop. But, yeah, it's not, I mean, it's not for it's not for everybody, but you can do it, and that's why I say, if you're gonna you're gonna get into a business that you don't know much about. It shouldn't be a $4 million business, you know, it needs to be a smaller, more easy to wrangle, so you can learn, and then you can scale from there. You can buy another one of those, or buy, you know, grow that one, or whatever. But you need something that you can wrap your your arms around,

Unknown Speaker  12:11
and not get trampled when you're that was a lot, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  12:20
But like, Are you learning more how to write? To run it as an owner? Are you learning like, the actual work, like, how to fix the car? Has it ever like, cost you business in the process?

Speaker 1  12:32
No, I don't know how to fix a car. I don't want to know how to fix a car. I mean, it'd be nice if I could just flip a switch and I know how to fix a car. But no, I'm, I'm relying on them to be able to do their job. And same thing with, you know, like even, even landscaping, you know, it's not easy to to make a flower bed look like a brand new flower bed, to look flat, and everything looks lands, you know, perfectly level, and it's the right flowers and plants stuff. I don't know any of that stuff, but the guys that work for me do, and, you know, I'll go look at everything afterwards, and just kind of, you know, like, Oh, that's a great job. But if they would ask me to do it, it would look like a, I don't even know what it looked like a pile of rocks out there. So I can't, I can't train them how to do it. But if, if I lost the GM there, I wouldn't go out there and step into that role and just try to learn everything I could to know so I could teach the guys as they get hired. I just have to find another GM that can step in, that already has that knowledge. So that's, that's what it comes down to use. You just have to pay people well for their expertise. If you're, if you're not going to get in there and learn it yourself, and, you know, to be a good mechanic, you those guys spend years, you know, they go to school. And nowadays, with all the, you know, computers and cars and they're going to technical schools and all kinds of stuff. It's not, it's not like it used to be where you just learn in your dad's garage.

Unknown Speaker  14:07
You know, yeah,

Speaker 1  14:09
but yeah, I don't. I just learned about the operation of the business itself, how to make sure that, you know, the software is used correctly, that customers are coming in like they're supposed to be, that they're satisfied when they leave, that the cars aren't coming back, for instance, on like, that's one of the worst things that can happen is so a car gets fixed, the customer comes back the next day and says, hey, it's still doing what it was or or they didn't put this bolt in there or whatever. And I don't know how they did the repair, but I can put systems in place to say, Okay, this tech worked on it. He needs to drive it this, you know, for two miles, bring it back. Another tech gets in it, looks over it, and he drives it for two miles, and then you have two sets of eyes. That's just, I. A QA that's quality assurance that, you know, they might do that at the Twinkie factory. You know, it doesn't matter what the underlying work is. It's just more people looking at it and and taking extra care to make sure that anytime a product or service is finished, that it was finished the right way.

Speaker 2  15:20
I got you do any of your, I don't know if you have, like, an HVAC or electrical kind of company? Yep, do any of them do like, a lot of commercial work? Like, I'll see a lot of businesses have a lot of like, commercial work, and they'll be winning bids. Yeah, I'm just not sure how. How do you like win bids? You know, maybe, maybe the old owner knows how to and he has connections. But if I were to buy something like that, how do I

Unknown Speaker  15:46
well, that that's, that's tougher.

Speaker 1  15:49
So with the commercial so a lot of times those, those owners, they have a contractor's license, so they can go do the bids themselves. They've been in business for a long time. They know, you know, they're in the good old boy system where everybody knows everybody and they're gonna give the bid to them. So I stay away from the big commercial ones, unless they have long term contracts with like, faceless corporations. Like, okay, they have a long term contract with Lowe's to, you know, for five, five low stores in this city, they handle all the electrical work that ever comes up at Lowe's. That kind of stuff is good. But like, if they're bidding consistently on new construction projects and things like that, I'll stay away from that.

Speaker 2  16:34
Yeah, yeah, that's mainly what I'm seeing for sale. I think the highest residential I've seen was like 60%

Speaker 1  16:43
Yeah, and you know, you also don't want to buy one where the customer concentration is really, really dense, where it's like three or four customers, you know, because then maybe the only reason those customers are there is because the old owner, yeah, something like that is also pretty risky, but, yeah, if you get into where it's more consumer based for, you know, and not commercial, then you've got more levers you can pull, because you can advertise more. You can do commercials. You can do specials that you know, everybody's familiar with, you know, you can do outreaches to, you know, I don't know, you can sponsor a little league team, put your name on the back of there, maybe get some of those parents to use, like that kind of stuff. But it's hard to break into a community if you're an outsider in that community, you know, even if it's like a, like a, I don't know, the construction community, you know, they, there's these companies, and these companies always use this company, and so on and so forth. That's really tough to break into. But if someone, if their AC goes out and it's 100 degrees outside, and they Google, and you come up and you've got 4.7 stars, there you go.

Speaker 2  18:10
A business I've been getting a lot of recommendations for is, like, pet based business, like pet grooming, pet boarding, you know, like those kinds.

Speaker 1  18:21
Yeah, those, I think, I think those are good businesses. The problem with those are employees. So, like you you can't afford to pay employees very much in those businesses. So employees are going to come and go pretty quickly, unless it's grooming. But like, you know, boarding, you're just paying someone to come in and shovel poop and open doors and close doors, you know. And it's hard to get people don't want to do that a lot of times. You know, you're going to get 1617, year olds that are going to show up half the time. And it just, it makes it to where the owner, it ends up falling back on the owner's shoulders a lot, because they're going to have to cover or they're going to have to pay someone else a lot of money to cover, to be the GM, and the margins are pretty, pretty low on that sometimes. But that's the problem with those. And I love dogs, and I love, you know, pet products and anything in that industry, because people go crazy for, you know, just dog stuff. And I'm, I'm guilty of it too. We got expensive, stupid dog toys laying all over and you can see the dog beds, and there's dog beds in every room in my house. But as far as, like, boarding, especially, that's, it's, it's, it's a tough racket. That's why there's so many for sale. When you see the same type of business coming up for sale all the time, restaurants, um, bars, pet places like that, boarding places, then, then you you know, okay, maybe something's going on here. But you see, like, an H back that's listed for a couple of weeks and it's gone. You know, you see those and laundromats are there and gone. There's a reason for that.

Speaker 2  20:11
Laundromats have really high multiples, like I've not seen below four a laundromat, or

Speaker 1  20:18
you would have about three years ago. You don't see him anymore, though.

Unknown Speaker  20:23
Yeah, thanks a lot. Cody Sanchez, do you have

Speaker 2  20:29
a, like, a draft of your employment contracts kind of similar to, like the Lois?

Speaker 1  20:37
I don't, but I can, I can do that. I can just the very last one, the newest one that I did, I can just redact the names and throw it out there. That's, yeah,

Speaker 2  20:49
that'd be awesome. Man, yeah. Well, definitely, that's a good idea.

Speaker 1  20:58
And actually, I got this from, I got that agreement from someone else that they worked for. They were buying up smaller chicken places for Tyson Foods. When Tyson was buying, like consolidating the chicken market, and they were using a very similar employment agreement for the I think it was the plant managers,

Speaker 2  21:30
kind of slightly unrelated. It's not a multi member LLC agreement in your resource bundle. Do you just like fill that out and shoot it over to like, a CPA or lawyer or like form the LLC

Unknown Speaker  21:48
in the entity, resources.

Unknown Speaker  21:50
Yeah, it's like at the bottom.

Unknown Speaker  22:00
See, I'll show my screen so you guys can see what I'm doing.

Unknown Speaker  22:06
So this one, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  22:10
yeah. See this stuff.

Speaker 1  22:14
This huge LLC portion here was donated by a member, so he worked at a intellectual property firm, and they also did LLCs and everything, and he was involved in that process. So this is one I have not personally used these. He just, he, you know, he said these are the ones that they use all the time at their firm, and they just copy paste the the names in. So, yeah, so that's what you would do. So you would take this, I think there's a Word doc, yeah, there's, there's a Word document for it, and you would fill it all in, and then take it to an attorney and say, Hey, is this, you know, just look good, or, you know, what do you think? But, yeah, these are hardcore, like, it has everything in there. It's pretty, pretty overwhelming, but it's the type of thing that you would expect on a $4 million business, you know, if you're looking at businesses that size, and you've got partners, and, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  23:23
yeah, you would expect a contract like this.

Unknown Speaker  23:28
But, like I said, I haven't used them personally.

Speaker 2  23:34
Kind of following up on that I got a lawyer, but it did a cop into me one time with one lawyer that he quoted me like 50,000 for due diligence on a deal, right? And I asked him for what? And he kind of said a lot of nothing, like, what specifically is he doing? And he didn't really mention anything. I know I need them to review the APA, the LOI

Unknown Speaker  24:02
form LLC,

Speaker 2  24:05
do a background check on the business. Is there anything else that I need to know, that they need to do, or is it just those four

Speaker 1  24:14
Well, I mean, it depends on what you're planning on doing. Are you expecting them to do? You know, go over the books and,

Speaker 2  24:23
no, that would be like me and Randy, okay, over the books, I think. Okay.

Speaker 1  24:27
Well, if they quoted you a price of $50,000 and they're not actually visiting the business and going through the financials and and going through statements and all that, then I would find somebody else. I would imagine that's what a high price for.

Speaker 2  24:42
Yeah, I got, um, I retained another guy that was actually referred by the loan broker, but it's just something that happened. I was like, well, let's just make sure and that's not going to happen again, because I didn't really know what they're going to do.

Speaker 1  24:57
And, yeah. I i have the attorney look over the purchase agreement and the lease. If you know the there's generally a lease involved too. So I'm just paying them to look over those contracts. I'm not paying them necessarily for due diligence other than look through court records to see if there's any active lawsuits like the the last, the last one that I bought. He he came and told me, he's like, you know this, this business has been sued 13 times in the last 20 years. It's like, holy crap. That seems like a lot. He's like, Yeah, that is a lot. And he said, every single one of them have been for this. It's the same thing over and over and over again. And he and the old owner had never lost but as he was screwing people over, he would like they would bring a car in, he would look at it, and he'd just start fixing it and putting a bunch of expensive parts on there. They'd come back and he'd say, Okay, it's gonna be $4,000 he never would get authorization to do that stuff, and eventually, you know, that's you can't do that. You got to get people's permission. It's actually, it's a law, but he was getting away with it somehow, but, but I would not have known that had it not been for the attorney, because I didn't, I didn't see that anywhere, and no one ever just told me that. So they just, they have, you know, the ability to look at things like that. But I don't have them look at the books or do anything other than just, you know, look at the business itself. Is it structured, right? Is, you know, do this? Does the person own it that says they own it and, like, cannot, can they legally sell it to me. Are there liens on it? Here's my purchase agreement, here's my lease, and then the rest of the stuff I do, and then I take all the stuff that I compile together and then take it to Randy value.

Speaker 2  26:56
Do you normally draft her own purchase agreement? Or in Florida, at least, there's something called a BBF contract. All like the big brokers in the entire state, kind of use the same template for the purchase agreement, and they call it like a BBF contract. Are you? Are you okay? Kind of just revising the like sellers contract normally, or do you always want to draft your own?

Speaker 1  27:23
I would prefer to bring my own. But I mean, if, if the contracts fair and it and it covers everything, it's okay if the you know the seller brings it, you just want to make sure that you know that the attorney looks at it. But I don't think it's as important who drafts it, as opposed to what's actually in it. You know, some people say, oh, you know, if you, if you need to bring the contract, you set the terms. And I think there's value in that. But I don't think it's an absolute that's like, you know, the first person to, just to throw a number out there is the one that loses the negotiation. I don't think that's true either. Yeah, fair enough. Shane, Just could you said something so sorry to interrupt George. You. You mentioned the lawsuit. You said that you wouldn't have saw that is that because you didn't think to look up lawsuits, or you just did and didn't find any lawsuits? I googled it, but and I didn't find any,

Unknown Speaker  28:33
so I did

Speaker 1  28:36
court records. Okay, right, right. Yeah. Okay. Now just trying to get clarification on that, yeah, I would have missed it. Now, I go to, you know, I go to the court records, and I look up specifically the person's name and the, you know, the business name too. But this business had actually had a couple of names in the past. They gotten sued by a dealership because their name was very close to the dealership name, and they had to change their name. So I didn't even know about that on the old name, like all that stuff, I wouldn't have known had the attorney not you know that was in the court records. He's the one that basically shared all that with me. Yeah, I would have missed all that, even though I thought I had searched for it.

Speaker 2  29:29
Hey, Shane, could you you mind looking at a business? Sure. Paste in the link here. Okay, one second. There you go.

Unknown Speaker  29:50
Answer this

Unknown Speaker  29:58
holy, autonomous business. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  30:08
just two years old.

Speaker 1  30:13
That's that scares me a little bit, right there. Love that.

Unknown Speaker  30:15
Yeah. So what do they do?

Speaker 1  30:21
Auto Repair and Body Shop. How is it fully autonomous? And what does that even mean? Do they mean absentee? I guess, eight employees, 12,000 square feet, staff of eight, three managers, all willing to stay. Business being sold. Do the owners plan relocation abroad?

Unknown Speaker  30:58
And it's home based,

Speaker 1  31:01
so I don't understand that. How is it home based, and they have a 12,000 square foot facility,

Unknown Speaker  31:11
I don't know, a little strange, yeah,

Speaker 1  31:15
so he the owner, wasn't planning to move abroad two years ago when they bought this business. You know, that's that to me. That's what stands out in this like, why would you sell a business in two years, unless something's something's up. Now, if they bought it and they're a flipper, that's one thing. And it could be, it could be the case like, but this says it was established in 2023 so usually they don't put the sale date there. They'll put like when it actually started. So if this business started in 98 it would say 98 even if they bought it in 2023 like, you wouldn't find that out till later. You investigate a little more so. But I mean, those are great numbers for an eight person business?

Unknown Speaker  32:05
Yeah? I mean, the numbers look good

Speaker 2  32:10
for sure. Okay, yeah, I just realized, yeah, it's not, not through a broker, but there's a phone number. So I'll, maybe, I'll call and investigate,

Speaker 1  32:19
yeah, I just want to, you know, I would say, did the did they buy this business in 2023, or they started it like, Where'd that come from? Right? Whether you're a hands on operator or a semi passive investor, this turnkey shop offers scalable, low effort ownership experience. Hmm? Oh, no, it looks like a good place. Nice building.

Unknown Speaker  32:56
Thank you, yeah, let you

Unknown Speaker  32:58
know. Okay, yeah, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  33:12
Anybody else got one?

Speaker 3  33:22
I don't got a I don't got a business. I got a question. Okay, so, well, actually, first I signed up for a credit repair company today, okay? And I spoke to them yesterday about, like, the terms and everything. Like, okay, what's the down payment to get started? And then they charge a little bit extra every time they get something accomplished, and this and that. And then I was looking at the agreement today to sign it and everything. And then I saw there was like an extra fee, like $30 a month or whatever, just every month. And I was like, you know, I don't like surprises, right? And so, but I had everything, you know, I was about to get, like, not mad, but just like, that's aggravating. Then Then I heard, like, your voice in my head, just say, Hey Joe, if this helps you get a $20,000 a month business, just pay for it and let the business pay for it. So kind of had the imagination of you mentoring me during the day.

Speaker 1  34:17
That's cool, but I mean, if there's hidden fees, like, maybe you just find a different company. They can do the same thing.

Speaker 3  34:23
I mean, I don't say it was hidden, but maybe, I mean, obviously, maybe they just didn't mention it or whatever. But it's, I mean, 600 for them to get started, and then it's like 50 bucks every time they get something removed or something like that. And I told them it was, you know, specifically looking for these school loans, late payments. And so I spoken to the person on, he was on Tiktok, and he's been doing this since 2017 so he's got, you know, like, seven or eight years, you know, experience. That's he didn't just start yesterday, so that's okay. And so, but then I talked to him about the school loan. Loans. And then, you know, he said, There's technicalities that you can get around, even though, like, you know, because I just try to find it myself. And then the credit bureaus came back saying, like, hey, we talked to your creditor. And this, they said, everything is accurate. I was like, Oh, God, you know, so. But when I, when I talked to this dude on Tiktok, I don't know, maybe a month ago, he said there's technicalities you can get around, and they can remove it that way. So hopefully that's, you know, worth it, I guess. But we'll, we'll see So, but so my question was, okay, so I was talking to a friend about you and the class and everything. And he was telling me about, you know, he's just a working guy, putting his wife through school, and he's got two kids. He's, you know, whatever. He's just, like, he's, like, just struggling, like everybody else, so, but he's got, like, some real smart career, like, he's an engineer or or something in science or whatever. So he's super smart. So, but I was like, why don't you buy a business I'm part of this, you know, business class, you can learn a lot and everything. And I was like, try to downplay a little and say, you just, kind of, you just kind of need a 680 credit score to kind of get started. He said he probably has that, but he says he has a bunch of debt. So I didn't want to, like, dig into it too further. Like, you know, if it's credit card debt, I understand like that might prevent you from getting, you know, like the credit card stacking type of a thing. But what if it's like, what if he's talking about, like, auto loans or house debt, or does that prevent you from getting credit business credit cards? Or is it just pretty Yeah, no.

Speaker 1  36:38
I mean, if you have a really high debt to income ratio that that's going to hinder you, but you know, he has a good income and he's still within the parameters, then he should be fine, as long as he doesn't have a bunch of missed payments and stuff that high debt comes with missed payments and, yeah, charge offs and all that kind of stuff.

Speaker 3  36:59
Okay, cool. Well, he was, like, out of everyone I've talked to about, you know, I've always tried to persuade people to buy business or whatever, you know, it's like, hey, it's what I'm into, watching you get into it. But he was actually the first one to actually not shrug it off. And he was, he did sound interested. So maybe if I'll relay that information, I'll start joining us so but yeah, thanks for answering that for me. Yeah, no problem.

Speaker 2  37:27
Kind of following up on what Joe was saying, one of my loan brokers did mention to me that your personal debt will get factored into, like, the DSCR calculation. So if you're going, like a smaller business, that could throw off the ratio if you have, like, personal debt that you're also going to have to pay. Have you, like, seen that when you get SBA deals done?

Speaker 1  37:51
Or No, I didn't, but when I was doing SBA, I didn't have a lot of debt, personal debt so and I know that my my bank now does not factor that in at all. I don't know I I haven't seen them do that, even when I sat down, sat down with a an SBA lender, like they didn't. They didn't put they just use the numbers for the business just like we do. They never did that.

Unknown Speaker  38:31
Yeah, it's kind

Speaker 2  38:36
of odd when you refinanced all your SBA loans. Do you have any idea how, like long you'd have to have this be a loan before you can refinance

Unknown Speaker  38:47
the seasoning period? I think it's six months.

Speaker 1  38:52
I believe, I believe it's six months. But I just, I was I paid them off in chunks. I didn't refinance them. The businesses paid for them. I just didn't take a salary at all.

Speaker 2  39:06
I thought you mentioned like that. You consolidated them into like 6% or something.

Speaker 1  39:12
No, that was no, that was my investment

Unknown Speaker  39:16
properties. Yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  39:24
I'm bringing it back to one of the deals.

Speaker 2  39:27
So there's a 2 million business I'm looking at, and then there's another 1 million that I showed you, like the Google Doc, for lot of potential in that one, like, I know what needs to be fixed. The only thing is. So I don't know if the SBA will approve it or a bank will, because the owner has issues with taxes. Like back in 2010 he got arrested for not filing taxes for like five years, and like last week. He filed chapter 11 bankruptcy for the taxes and all that. How is the bankruptcy gonna affect the deal? Do you know?

Unknown Speaker  40:18
Yeah, it's gonna jack it up. Because,

Unknown Speaker  40:22
you know, they're going to want,

Speaker 1  40:25
you know, they could potentially put liens on the assets of the business to pay that stuff back. It's going to be very difficult to buy that business with an active like, until that stuff resolves. Yeah, that's going to be tough, because the last thing you want to do is is buy it, and then come to find out that you you don't really own it because there was a lien on it because of the bankruptcy stuff,

Unknown Speaker  40:52
that would scare me, that would scare me off, actually,

Speaker 2  40:57
it only didn't fully scare me off, because it's Like chapter 11. It's like a reorganization, not like a kind of sell off thing,

Speaker 1  41:04
yeah, but how much is the total debt

Speaker 2  41:09
that I don't know? No, I'm assuming it's at least. I'm assuming it's less than a million, I mean, based on conversation with the broker, because that's why he wanted a cash offer. They didn't really want SBA, but then I had the meeting with a seller. Seller loved us, me and my family, so he wants, he already has a cash offer for less than, you know, the full asking price, obviously. But they still want to do it. They want to sell to us. We're just waiting on the 2024 tax return to get that over to my loan broker. But that's also part of the reason I'm looking at the 2 million business again, because I don't want to miss out on another business waiting for this 2024 tax return. Yeah. You know, you ever bought two businesses at the same time? Or, like, no,

Speaker 1  42:07
no, I have had multiple Lois at the same time, though, being due diligence for more than one.

Unknown Speaker  42:15
Yep, I've done that.

Speaker 1  42:18
But you need if you're going to get SBA, especially, you need about six months in between. You know, you get an SBA and then wait about six months and get another SBA. They don't, I don't think they tell you you can't, but it just it raises red flags. Stack them up too soon they want you to stabilize. Have the last asset stabilized before you go on to the new the new one, and data might not even tell you, but they don't like absentee ownership. They like owner operators. They want somebody who's going to be there, like all that stuff. Just like, I don't know if you saw what Ernie just posted, where you know what the minimums, but actually what banks want are quite a bit different, because you have to get through the bank first to even get to even get to the SBA

Speaker 2  43:09
I got you, I don't know. I mean, ideally I'd like to buy both, because it's, it's a family, so there can be, like, one or two people in each one at the same time, there's three of us in total.

Speaker 1  43:21
So, but, yeah, yeah, the first business, right? You could still get that first one just sharpen it to where it's it's just a fine, well tuned machine that makes a lot of money and is efficient. And you know, you know exactly how to do it, and you know what works and what doesn't work. And when you're looking for that next business, you know what to look for and what to watch out for, because you've been in the thick of it, you know, that's why I'm buying the same types of businesses now that I you know, because I know the pitfalls. I know what to look for. I know the things that someone who's not in the industry, wouldn't know. And, yeah, I'm, I know you have restaurant experience in your family, but still, like, that's a big restaurant, even a $2 million it's still a large, a large restaurant and a big business. So, yeah, just be patient. You know, I would stick to one deal at a time, you know. And if things work out great, you know, the next time you want to buy two, yeah, but there's so much that you'll learn on the first one, so much.

Speaker 2  44:34
Yeah, did you just close that you were on your LOI? Like two Lois?

Unknown Speaker  44:40
No? And

Speaker 1  44:43
you don't have to. I mean, if you had a purchase agreement, you might have to. But you know, and I only pursued the loan on the one that I was more confident in because I had some, had some reservations about the other one. And, and, yeah, I come to find out that the numbers weren't right, and I backed out. It was a it was an Army surplus store. It's what it was, which I thought would be a great business, because it's recession proof, and people like survival gear and hunting supplies, and it's been there for 30 years, but total fraud in the books.

Speaker 2  45:24
How do you like, find out the numbers weren't right? Do you just, like, check the POS or

Speaker 1  45:29
Well, what it was is they were just they had things like, she was paying her daughter as a full time employee. The daughter didn't work there. That was just so they wouldn't have to pay as much on their their taxes. So she was in when she disclosed to me the cash flow she was adding all that stuff in there. That was an add back in her mind. But that's, that's fraud. She had put a swimming pool in her in her personal home, and build that to the business as septic tank work, things like that. I mean, it was just one right after another of everything, everything in her, her tax documents, was a complete and total lie. And I was like, if she's lying this much on that stuff, I can't trust any of these numbers. I I'm not taking any chances. There's no way.

Speaker 2  46:24
Yeah, so, I mean, I see that a lot actually, where there's like, a lot of family member getting paid. Ad backs, like, they'll do, like, the one guy has a CFO who's, like, basically an accountant, and he pays like, 200 grand, and then he'll pay his parents 200 grand to do, like, yard work or maintenance

Unknown Speaker  46:46
those but

Speaker 1  46:47
the daughter, well, the daughter hadn't been there and didn't even know she was getting paid.

Unknown Speaker  46:55
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, it wasn't.

Speaker 1  46:56
It wasn't like she was on the payroll and she would just fill in now and then, like it was a complete dummy paycheck. Yeah, because it, it made her look like she made less, and then her daughter didn't, didn't really have an income. So she would handle the tax returns, and she was giving her some of the money, but she was taking the bulk of it herself. So, yeah, yeah, if it was just a family member on the payroll, that's that's different. That happens all the time.

Speaker 2  47:34
Okay, okay, I think that's my last question. Um, yeah. Oh, the if you could do, please do the employment contracts when you get a chance,

Unknown Speaker  47:45
I definitely will.

Unknown Speaker  47:54
Anybody else got a question?

Unknown Speaker  48:05
Okay.
