Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. This is the mentorship Q and A. It is May 29 and we're just going to open it up to questions. If anybody has questions about business, acquisition, real estate financing, just pretty much anything like what's going on now is the time

Speaker 2  00:23
Shane, I want to jump in. I have a question. Okay, so we got the business that was looking at the beauty shop. I stopped my shop this morning when I was out there having a morning walk, and I realized that the guy had actually posted it on a site that was that I wasn't familiar with. I'm like, Oh, for real. So I saw a QR code, and I scanned the code. He put it there as, like, scare me. And it was the site, you know, where the business was listed for sale. It wasn't one of this popular site. It was called, I think, cartoon. I'm not sure if you've heard about that bottom line I missed.

Unknown Speaker  01:09
To make sure I have the right spelling, cartoon.

Unknown Speaker  01:13
Sorry, let me pull it up.

Speaker 1  01:20
There's often. There are a lot, there are like local business, you know?

Unknown Speaker  01:24
Yeah, it sounded more like local, okay, yeah.

Speaker 2  01:30
Sounded more like local. And it was like something really locally generated, and it wasn't like on the web for everybody to browse or Google like. It was something that you have to scan a QRS code. So somebody made it for him, okay, but apparently he he had it listed there. So my thing is, these are, like you are aware, I had a little bit of a contact with Mark, and I just want your candid advice as to what is best trying to like I have approached the bank, and I met a very good lender, or, you know, banker, a small business banker, he really showed interest to want to help me, and He wants to help through the XBA. He has some connection with SBA lender that are long term, you know, affiliates of his. So he said he is going to pass me through the SBA, because it's considered, even though this is an established business, because I'm acquiring it, or my business is acquiring it, it's still considered a new business, kind of so my issue is I do want to purchase the business going the route of a holding company, because I don't want to wait in The future to have that going? Is that a right strategy for someone like me starting off? And I know you've been into this for a while. You know, there are some things that I believe I can tap into. And you know, the real experience you've been there, you know, you've worked this walk. What do you advice that I do, because coming from the perspective of,

Unknown Speaker  03:27
you know, like I have actually approached

Speaker 2  03:31
registering companies in Wyoming, and I'm really looking into doing that. But financial wise, is that a good step to take will eliminate my ability to get the fund that I need and get situated and started off.

Speaker 1  03:50
So, so you're saying that you want to use the Mac enterprises method of, you know, holding company, you know, that whole strategy that he uses to move money back and forth.

Speaker 2  04:01
Is that what you're saying? Yes and no. So my goal right now is his method. He's just focusing on moving the money around. But what's the whole point of having access to capital if you don't have a viable business that's generating money like you can have money borrowed, but if you don't have the ideas, and if you don't have sales, then you stuck with somebody's money. You know that's not producing anything. So. But my whole idea is, I do want to start somewhere, but start acquiring businesses. But I wanted to start it off with having a holding company so that, that way I can get myself and my ear, myself completely, and my social security of the way, and have the holding company, you know, generating its own muscle to be able to acquire these businesses as time goes on, right so with the wrong move at this point. Is to start my business as as a holding company, reaching out to Wyoming and setting that up now, because he thinks that that's actually the best route to get something started. So you get all of this off your name and yourself,

Speaker 1  05:17
yeah, I mean, I get that. But the thing is, and I think you hit the nail on the head where the most important thing is to find a good deal and to acquire it, you know, all that you can get really fancy, and you can create a holding company, and you can create multiple LLCs, and you can create a, you know, a C Corp, and all this stuff that you don't necessarily need. If you find a good business and you want to purchase that business, and you don't want to purchase that business in your your own name, then you can use an LLC with a registered agent that is not you, and you can pay someone to be a registered agent, and you can buy it as an asset sale. And then it's still not it's still not necessarily on you. Now, if you're going out for business funding, I don't care what structure you have, if it's if it's new, you're going to have to personally guarantee it to get funding anyway. That's just kind of how it goes. And if you are buying a business, you're in Chicago, right? Patience, yeah. So if you So, if you're in Illinois and you have a Wyoming company, it makes it more difficult to get funding in Illinois. Doesn't mean you can't, but it's just a lot easier to keep, you know, your LLC and the LLC of the business that you're purchasing in the same state. You want to make it as as straightforward as possible. When you come in and you've got a fancy Wyoming holding company and this and that, and, you know, you don't really, I mean, it's one thing. If you have multiple businesses and you've got a track record and all that stuff, and you go into the bank and you say, here's what I'm doing. I'm going to continue. Know, here's my what I want to do right now. As as a beginner, the best thing you can do is go to an SBA lender and say, Hey, I'm a beginner. I'm but I'm gonna do this. I'm ready to do this. I found this company. How can I get it funded? I have an LLC and just, but you know, if you go in there, you just don't want to set off any alarms. You know, no, they don't, you know. You want them to know you're serious, that you have the funds for the down payment that you can you can move forward and you can close, but you can always do the holding company later, too, if you wanted to do that. I think going through all those steps at this point before you have the business doesn't really, it's not really worth it. It's like a lot of people do the same thing in real estate. They'll say, Okay, I want to. I want this many multifamily buildings, so I'm going to go ahead and create three or four LLCs and have them ready. Don't This doesn't make any sense. Like, just go get the properties first and then do it, you know, or find a property, create an LLC. It takes, like, a week or two, but for all that stuff to get done, and then close in that LLC, if that's what you want to do. But, like, it's really easy to try to get everything perfect and miss out on an opportunity to buy a business because you're trying to get everything perfect. So be careful about that. And the thing with Mac, I think Mac has a lot of good ideas, and I've, you know, I've seen a lot of his stuff out there. What I don't see Mac really doing is making money. I see Mac talking about moving money around and, you know, but like acquiring businesses and actually, you know, getting cash flow and getting, you know, financial freedom and independence. I don't really see him doing that. I think he's really good with business structure, but not necessarily graded at the other stuff. So, yeah, I don't want to throw Shane on anybody, because I don't know for sure, but, like, just that's his focus, you know. And I think there's more important things, you know. There's plenty of businesses out there right now that are sole proprietorships that make a lot of money, you know. So, and they don't, they've got the worst, most risky, you know, business structure you can have, and they're still making money. So I think that's second to actually finding a business, funding that acquisition and closing everything else you can do later if you need to.

Speaker 2  09:16
Okay, all right, thank you so much. Appreciate it. No problem.

Unknown Speaker  09:27
Let's see. Janine, how's how's your your

Speaker 1  09:31
acquisitions going? You, you were, you had three right, that you were honing in on last week, and I put you on the spot.

Speaker 3  09:43
Nope, not at all. It is just a little hectic in my house right now. My daughter just had surgery last week, still recovering. So, yes, it is just, it's a little madness. But so I, actually, I met with the owner. Her and his crew twice over the past week, which this is for the two the environmental company, and for so it's like, mold remediation and asbestos and stuff. And then the second one that's kind of tied into that is critter cleanup. And it focuses on, like, Raccoon damage. And he's, like, basically, he showed me, like, all the estimates of the stuff through the insurance and like, 95% is covered by insurance. And I think that's like, the bulk of it is just going back and forth with like, insurance companies after they do the initial assessment. So I already put my loi in, and we're to the point where I'm doing due diligence. I just put I submitted my documents today, due diligence on the financials. And I think I am going to move forward.

Speaker 1  10:57
Nice, nice. So when you say you submitted the documents, you submitted them to your your CPA, or, okay,

Speaker 3  11:05
to a CPA that the broker recommended. And this is it's like one of the best brokers that I've worked with. They've just been very helpful. They've been very kind, very responsive. So I was hoping, from like the get go, that this would be, or like, one of the businesses that they presented me with, that would be one of the businesses that I would move forward with, just because I really enjoyed working with them. So he recommended a CPA, and I submitted the documents and I haven't gotten no I'm sorry I didn't submit the documents yet. I reached out to, like, establish a report, and I'm waiting for him to kind of respond, and then hopefully by tomorrow, I'll submit the documents.

Speaker 1  11:55
Okay, nice, nice. So what made you pick that one of the three? What was your deciding factor? I'm being completely

Speaker 3  12:03
honest, some of the the, well, first of all, the owner and like his family and I just got, like, really warm fuzzies from them. He, he said that, you know, he could, he would help me six months to a year, if I wanted that, he had basically his the reason why he's retiring is that his wife just got diagnosed with Parkinson's and, yeah, he's been doing it for like, 20 years. He's super knowledgeable. His son is in the business. He's also super knowledgeable. They're both just so nice and helpful. And he, you know, he has houses. He has a house up in Saratoga, a house down in Texas, and then a house in Long Island. And he was like, he'll probably bounce back and forth between Texas and Saratoga for the most part. He's like, you know, if I get like a big job, they get these half million dollar jobs, like every, like two to three years. He said, if I need help with that, that he would like, fly up and help for as long as you know, I needed. And it just I got, like a real, like family feel with them like was just no shadiness, very straightforward.

Unknown Speaker  13:29
Yeah, it was just, it was good vibes.

Speaker 1  13:32
Okay, cool. And the fact that he's willing to be available for six months to a year is rare. That's that says a lot about what he thinks about the future of the business. Yeah, big time. Yeah. Okay, congrats. Nice. Well, definitely keep us posted.

Speaker 3  13:47
I will, I will. Yeah, we'll. We'll see hit the income, like, the cash flow is. So he'll have, like, really good years and then, and then his, like, not so great years are still they still sound fantastic to me, but yeah, once like, the due diligence is done, I'm hoping to kind of frame it, he's also offering seller finance. So I'm hoping to frame it to get seller finance for like half of the down payment, or, yeah, half the down payment. And then some type of earn out, right? Is that earn out structure where, like, it'll be, like, dependent on, like, two years worth of income or cash flow to see, you know what it is after that, and see if, if it holds up, I guess under my name, like he's he's already talking about, like going out to dinner and lunch and all this stuff with like the referrals and the people that that refer us, or that refer. Our business to us. So that's also, like, really promising. And, yeah, it's just, it seems, it seems really cool.

Speaker 1  15:09
Yeah, okay. Now with the seller finance, it does, does he know that with, you know, as of June 1, that if he finances half of that down payment, that he has to be, you know, that has to be on, like, set aside for 10 years. Like, you can't, he can't expect any payments from you for 10 years.

Speaker 3  15:29
Yes, he basically said that he's already made his money from the company, and anything extra is, like, icing on the cake. Okay, okay. So, yeah, he just seems like a really good dude, and the business seems so solid.

Speaker 1  15:47
Well, I mean, there's no shortage of raccoons, right? They keep making them.

Speaker 3  15:54
Yeah, and there, and he gave me a sweatshirt, and it's got like, a little raccoon on it. And I'm, like, sold. It's horrible.

Unknown Speaker  16:05
Okay, okay, nice,

Speaker 3  16:07
but I will keep you posted on that journey.

Speaker 1  16:11
Yeah, well, I mean, if he's willing to do that and and, you know, put that aside for 10 years that, I mean, that tells you right there that he expects this business is solid enough for even a new owner to come in, and he would still get money after 10 years. So, yeah, that's, that's that seems like, you know, and from the number, I don't remember the exact numbers from last week, but I know it was, it was pretty good. So, yeah, awesome.

Speaker 3  16:37
It was. So they put, like 627 for cash flow. And then he said it fluctuates between between 300 and like 606 50, and the he's asking 900

Speaker 1  16:56
Okay, so even at the lowest number, it still means the multiple. Yes, okay, nice, okay, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  17:06
yeah. So, yeah, I'm excited, and

Speaker 3  17:10
I've been waking up super early. I'm not a morning person, so I

Speaker 1  17:17
gotta like it. So the loi, how did you do the LOI? Did the broker help you with that?

Speaker 3  17:23
Chat? Chat GPT helped me. The broker did a he gave me, like, a template for how they wanted it, and I kind of uploaded that, and then told chat GBT how and like, what I wanted in it. And yes, but that was actually, that was before, and he had already gone with somebody else and the so I haven't submitted a new loi yet. He just kind of knows that I'm looking to move forward with it, and I think the next part, after the due diligence, I'm just going to submit my offer.

Speaker 1  17:58
Okay, okay. You know, there is a loi template too, and the resources might help us as well, if you want to just run

Unknown Speaker  18:05
about that too. Yeah, thank you. All right. Congrats. Shane, thank you.

Speaker 4  18:15
Great question. Are you doing SBA or just like seller financing

Unknown Speaker  18:20
SBA and

Speaker 4  18:23
those changes, the one happening, like in June 1, is it gonna affect that? Or you already started an application yet?

Speaker 3  18:32
No, it'll, it'll affect it by the closing it goes by, like, the closing date of it. Okay, got it? Yeah. So we're all in a new world.

Speaker 1  18:45
Yeah, basically we went back to 2023 we're essentially at the exact spot we were in 23 Yeah, with the SBA. So all the, all the changes that that were put in to loosen things were just pulled back. So they just went right back to, I think it's exactly what it was in 2023

Speaker 3  19:06
Is that how it was for like, a while before 2023 like, leading up to,

Speaker 1  19:10
okay, yep, yeah, yeah, that was when Biden got in. They they changed all of that, and then they had a they were the SBA was losing money, and, you know, that was part of the the initiative to make, you know, stop the losses, essentially, like that whole Doge thing, that was one of their recommendations, was to crack down in the SBA. So what they did, I really wish they would have gone piece by piece and analyzed each piece, what was good, what was bad, because there were some good things that were changed that I would have liked to have seen in, but instead, they just clean swept every single change that was put in. So we went right back to 2023

Speaker 2  19:54
go ahead. Sorry. Go. Is the look, in general for people like us just starting out. As far as the changes, yeah, the changes.

Speaker 1  20:10
It makes it, it makes it harder to get harder to get seller financing. Because, you know, if they want to, if they want to hold some, you know, equity, they have to be on the loan they have, they personally guaranteed the loan, the loan that's, that's one that pretty much that kills, you know, if they want to even stay on, like, sometimes an owner will stay on with, like, 1% 5% equity, something like that, just to be an advisor, whatever, if they do that, they have to personally guarantee the loan, just like you and you know, they're almost basically a partner with you, so that that makes it tougher. And then, you know, used to be, you would have to, like, if for seller financing of the down payment, they would put it on the payments of that on standby for two years so they could sell or finance a portion of the down payment. You know, say it's, you're buying a $500,000 business, they could finance half the down payment, which was 25,000 and they would just wait for payments for two years. Now they have to wait for 10 years, the whole life of the SBA loan, so they don't make any money on seller financing, and you know, at all during that 10 year. So that that really makes it more difficult to get seller financing, for sure. But, you know, it's still 10% all the basic stuff still there. Some of the things that I went back to is the financials. They're less restrictive on the financials that they will accept for what they'll, you know, the numbers, you know, I think before it was, it had to be a certain type of accountant, and this and that now you can actually submit numbers from someone that's not a CPA, that might just be a bookkeeper. Things like that are a little less restrictive. So, yeah, but it makes it makes it more difficult, but it's still easier than, still easier than getting real estate. You know, you don't have to put as much money up all the core concepts that make make it attractive to buy a business still are in place. It's still very possible. Yeah, there's actually a couple of posts too in the community that talk about those changes. There's a really good video that I posted last week where a guy's going through it's a YouTube video. He explains it really well, if you're interested,

Unknown Speaker  22:41
thanks. Anybody else have any questions

Speaker 4  22:51
real quick when it comes to SBA financing after your first can you then collateralize for another SBA loan, or a third after that, or Yeah.

Speaker 1  23:02
So what's it look like? So, definitely. So with like SBA seven a loans, your max is 5 million. So you can continue to get SBA loans until you hit that 5 million cap on SBA seven a, what, pretty much every SBA lender will tell you that you need at least six months in between. But you can do it. So if you're making your now, not if you default, obviously, if you default on that first one, the second one, you're, you're basically burned, and you're not going to be able to get an SBA loan because, you know, goes in the records, and you know, you're, you're on the blacklist for a while, but you can get an SBA loan in January for, you know, 500 grand, and then in June, you can get another one for 500 grand. And then in December, you can get another one for 500 grand. As long as you're making the payments, the deals are good and you have the down payments, you can continue to do that up to $5 million

Unknown Speaker  24:00
okay, cool, thanks. And

Speaker 1  24:03
I don't know exactly why they say six months, because I know I've heard people say that they've done it in a shorter time period. But I think it just, I don't know, it throws up alarm bells, maybe, like, maybe somebody's doing hashtag, doing too much, you know, something like that. But, but, yeah, you definitely can, I think, though, once you, once you get, when you start acquiring businesses, you'll the SBA is great at the beginning, but later on, once you have these, this additional revenue coming in that you can actually use for down payments to acquire other businesses, and you can bring a bigger down payment, and ends up saving you money by going to, you know, a traditional bank, because you get a much lower rate. You can amortize out longer distances. There's, there's a lot of things that you can do that, you know, the SBA. The SBA is there to help. So if you can't bring a 20% down payment, if you can't get financing through a traditional bank, that's where the SBA steps in. So they want to make sure that people who don't quite meet the criteria to go just to your regular brick and mortar bank and get a big loan can actually get a loan and keep businesses being bought and sold and built. You know, that's still the backbone of the economy. The American economy is still small business.

Speaker 2  25:30
So in my case, I went to my traditional bank, and he's turning me over to his SBA colleague, like, what does that tell me? Is it because the business I'm just on this journey as a newbie, or,

Speaker 1  25:47
yeah, yeah, possibly. And you know, the size of the business that you're looking for and the amount of down payments that you can bring you know, if you're looking to make a 10% down payment, then that pretty much, you know that that me, that's not gonna get you a traditional bank loan. It's going to be an SBA backed loan. You know that there? That's why the banks do that, because the SBA is guaranteeing that loan so their risk is mitigated. But, yeah, that's, that's how you you still do it. You still contact banks, and they just, you know, they have an SBA department, and then you go through the SBA department, and that's actually helps you now, because going back to the 2023 guidelines, you know they want SBA to be like your last resort. So if you have the funds in your bank account to bring a 20% down payment on a business, and you're just choosing to do it, try to do SBA and 10% they're going to deny you. They want you to exhaust those regular loans first. So it's really, it's, it's almost like FHA for buying a home. It's the same thing, you know, you can only qualify for that if you need it kind of thing. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  27:09
yeah. So what is the percentage right now? 10%

Speaker 1  27:12
is it's 10 for SBA, most banks, most traditional banks, if you're doing a non SBA, is 20% okay, but it depends. I mean, even some SBA backed loans, a bank might want you to bring more. If it's a small loan, like, say, you find a business for like, 150 200,000 they might want you to bring 20% even though it's SBA backed because they consider the smaller loans to be more risky. Okay, any other questions? Anybody got? Any businesses in the works, any prospects? No, all right, just keep looking. They are out there. I'll give so where I'm at with mine is I'm looking to close on the newest auto repair shop on the 20th we moved up the timeline because I have to do some traveling in July, and I want everything stabilized before I leave. So, yeah, we're trying to do that on June 20. I had a long talk with the well, the representative of the owner, he's the one that it's the son. He's handling all the financial stuff. We pretty much verbally agreed. I sent the purchase agreement to him, and we just kind of all the all the things that he wanted to change were reasonable. It made sense to me. Just trying to keep keep them safe, keep me safe. I should get their copy back with the changes in it tomorrow, as long as there's nothing weird in there, I'll send it by to my attorney. You should get that signed. And however, I even talk, I talked to him about doing posts and being able to talk to the employees like, hey, you know, getting ready to acquire this business, and they're holding me to the NDA until he said, he said, until at least 48 hours before the closing date. I can't, so I can't say anything to the employees 48 hours before the closing date. But in the contract, the purchase agreement contract, because there's one particular employee who is the GM, that if he is not going to be in that business when I acquire it, I will. It's one of the contingencies that I can back out of the deal. So I have 48 hours to talk to him, tell him, Hey, I'm going to purchase this business. I want to take you along with me. I'm, you know, blah, blah, blah. It's going to be interesting. Usually they're not that strict with it, but. They're afraid that I would say something to them, and they would get spooked and go get another job, and then I would back out of the deal, and then they'd be left with a man, you know, a business with no manager, and his his father would not be able to retire and do all you know, because he's 78 years old. I get it, yeah, exactly got to be clear to close. So I'll let you know how how that goes. But soon as I hit that 48 hours, I'm posting from in there, and we're going to do some we should do some stuff from in there that's been I wanted to take you guys along with this on this latest one, this whole journey, but so June 18, maybe start seeing stuff about that, and I'll post directly to the school community, hopefully.

Unknown Speaker  30:50
Okay, does anybody else have any anything?

Speaker 2  30:55
Yes, I do. Shane, all your businesses. Are they like all having their individual names and you are just managing all the books separately, or are they all coming has passed through to your own filing? Like, how are you doing? I know I'm getting too personal here, but I just want to have a

Speaker 1  31:20
no, that's fine. So they, they are still so, so it's not, they're not partnerships. They're LLCs that are taxes sole proprietorships. So they go my schedule C on my 1040 so they, they're not. They're, you know, I buy a business that is pretty much a certain size. I'm at a point on a couple of them where that I should probably switch them over to C corpse at this point, or at least, at least an S corp that's going to be this year. I have a strategy session with my accountant coming up after this acquisition, where, because we have to get together, so it's very important, even after you acquire the business, to make sure that you're doing things the correct way as you you know, start ownership of that business. For instance, am I is it structured in the way to optimally save as much on taxes as possible? So you know, there's different things you can do, like, if you're married, you and your spouse can be partners on the business, or you can be the primary. You can be the the sole member of the LLC, and then have it Tod to them on your desk so that, in case something happens to you, they don't have to pay capital gains taxes on it, things like that, like you just want to make sure that you're safe and that your family's safe, because nothing is more important at the end of the day, right? So yeah, during that strategy session, I know there's at least two that are probably going to move to C corps this year, so I'll start that process. But otherwise, to this point, they have been LLCs, taxes, sole proprietorships that go on my schedule, C so even though an LLC owns them, and, you know, so that way, I have that division between my personal assets and the in the company assets, in case someone were to sue me or to sue the business. You know, I have that shield there, which I know Mac doesn't believe that that's a real thing, but it is a real thing. And every attorney will tell you it's a real thing. You know, you want that separate, because if you just own everything in your personal name, and, you know, somebody falls in your business and they sue the business, then they can take your house, your cars, they can get everything that you have personally. But that's the, you know, limited liability corporation. That's what that's for. So, yeah, it's all going to my 1040

Unknown Speaker  33:49
Schedule C.

Speaker 2  33:51
The reason I ask is because when I form my initially, I didn't know my left from my right in business. So I was asked, Oh, how do you what do you elect from that elect for what? I don't know what you're talking about. So when I, when I made a tax election to the IRS, it was at a point in that was the business that I formed. It was at the point where the state, I was going to partner with the state and they needed me to, like, elect for something right away, or they're not going to approve on it. So I, I wrote a paper and I sent it back to IRS, but I made a mistake, and I made it a stick up instead of an S cup. So it was like, You know what? I'm not ready to go back. I just want to move forward. So that's the way I am right now, and I'm just still like, this is one thing to have. I had knowledge is another thing to have experiential knowledge, where someone who has been through that path can say, hey, looking back at what I know now, I will do this differently. You know. So I'm just trying to tap into those little, little knowledge as I go. Well, thank you.

Speaker 1  35:09
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of information, you know, that's, that's why we're here, right? Is, you know, I learned a lot of stuff from you guys, too. And there, there's, there's just power in numbers. When we sit here and talk about this stuff, everybody has different everybody has different backgrounds, different experience, different things they've gone through. And when we can talk about these things in a group like this, we all grow from it. So that's the whole point in taxes. I mean, taxes are one of the most nerve wracking things about business, the most stressful time of year. It's always, I don't care how much I pay accountants and bookkeepers. It still sucks every year. It's the number one downside to business ownership is taxes. It could, you know, it can definitely, can get worse. It can get better. But it's always a time of year that you have to prepare for. You have to strategize for. You have to be ready. And you know, as time goes by and you get into this stuff, and you start talking to accountants, and they do, you know, they prepare your taxes, you'll learn stuff as you go. But I like what Gina just said is Gina just said I unfollowed Mac after talking with my accountant attorney, right? So there's a reason you know, you just never know. He's very convincing on on those those lives and the things that he does, but just not true what he's saying. Yeah.

Speaker 2  36:39
So the thing, the thing is, the thing is, I have actually gone on this path before I met him, like, you know, it wasn't like, and it's not like, you know, there's no one person knowing it. Or people get convinced on whatever their experiences are, and they feel like, you know, one size should fit all. Definitely one size does not fit all you know. So I personally believe, like, I have to, like, you know what works for me and my family and my situation definitely might not work for the person as though. So I'm not, like, blindly following him, like, I'm not, have not actually been in this class for Wow, but I'm just, like, really focused on succeeding in life, on this part of business, because I came in with little or no knowledge, especially with the environment here in the US, like it's completely different from where I'm coming from, You know. So I feel like, you know my goal is to succeed, and I'll go to wherever I will succeed.

Unknown Speaker  37:49
Well, thank you. That's the right attitude, that that's cool.

Speaker 1  37:55
Okay, um, anybody else?

Unknown Speaker  38:01
It can be anything. No, okay,

Speaker 5  38:09
okay, I have something. Okay, go ahead. I found something very similar to what Janine found. It's a they test water, air and mold. But the broker I had posted in the group earlier, she was supposed to call me back today, but then she emailed me and said that she needed to move the call to Monday. But everything on it sounds good. It's like 43 years old. The lady who runs it, she has cancer and she's ready to retire. My only concern is that she has three employees, and she said everything else is subcontracted out.

Speaker 1  38:57
Okay? Well, I mean, that's that's not necessarily a bad thing. That's basically like, having employees, you know, it still works as long as, as long as you, you know, there's an option and you

Speaker 5  39:11
for them to, like, still work with me, right? Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  39:14
Okay, so this was, this was the thing that you posted about. They're getting a lot of people are just bugging them. And like, yes, yeah, okay,

Speaker 5  39:26
I contacted so this one is listed. I can't it's like a smaller I don't even remember, like, the firm or something, something I've never even heard of. And then Trans World sent me the same thing, and another broker sent me the same thing. And so they're all just like, calling me, and I'm like, missing calls, and

Speaker 1  39:48
okay, one of the biggest brokers in the US Trans World, yeah.

Speaker 5  39:55
So I was like, I don't know if this is, like, a new thing going on this week, because it's usually just us. On the NDA, and they send me the info immediately, but for some reason, they're wanting to call me before they send it to me.

Speaker 1  40:09
So, yeah, I mean, there's nothing. I don't think there's anything wrong, right? You're comfortable talking to them, and they're not grilling you about net worth, and you know, all this stuff to begin with, because it's none of their business at the beginning phase. You just have to skirt that line of of, I'm interested. I'm qualified to learn more, right?

Speaker 5  40:30
Because I didn't know, like, what are they like? What are they gonna be asking me and calling me for? And you know, it's like to me, if I respond to an email like, I am a real person. You Yeah, yeah, right.

Speaker 1  40:44
But, you know, AI can respond to emails too, yeah, I get, I get that. And also, just by, you know, it's still a relationship business, as far as, just like with any, any, any big things that are bought and sold, like real estate, businesses, like the brokers, they're more hands on. They want to talk to you. Yeah, they want your numbers to be right. But at the same time, they, you know, they still want to, they want to build a relationship too, because they want to get a feel for Are you serious? Do you know what you're talking about are you just, you know, somebody that's, it's going to take them to the end of this process and then leave them at the altar kind of thing. So they're, they're just,

Unknown Speaker  41:31
you know, they build in the relationship, yeah.

Speaker 1  41:34
And if you find like, like, Janine, Janine found a good broker, right? Which is pretty rare, but if you can find a good broker and work with them, they will start giving they will give you leads, you know, things maybe haven't been listed before. They'll say, hey, well, this looks like something. This is similar to what Brooke is looking for. I will, before I even list it, I'll reach out, because I know she's a qualified buyer. She's serious, blah, blah, blah, and you can get around all of that with the right broker. So I always if a broker calls me, I will talk to them. I want to cultivate those relationships, because it's your network, right? And if you have a network of good brokers, there's a lot you can accomplish.

Speaker 5  42:17
Okay, Alrighty, well, yeah, I guess I'll keep scheduling my calls.

Speaker 1  42:31
Oh, see, Janine says that her company has two full time employees but relies on subcontractors, same thing.

Unknown Speaker  42:42
Shane What are you doing?

Speaker 2  42:45
What do you do with questions about, you know, you acquiring a business and you don't have experience in the business.

Unknown Speaker  42:55
Can someone run out of

Speaker 2  42:59
luck of being financed by the SBA. If you don't have no experience whatsoever in that business,

Unknown Speaker  43:05
no, it helps.

Speaker 2  43:07
Should you? Should you be truthful? Like, you know, like, I have an idea. Like, it is not like I have operated this kind of business, but I have had idea about, like, the industry without

Speaker 1  43:22
parents, yeah, so, like, exactly. So you say something like, you know, I'm, I own because you you're already a business owner. So I'm already a business owner. I understand the, you know, the how business works. I understand bookkeeping. I understand how to manage employees. You know, you start talking about all that stuff, which is common to basically all businesses. And then so for your the current one year, you were talking about a beauty supply company, right? So you could say that you had, you had experience in beauty supplies. You've actually visited this, that particular business many times. You've seen how it operates. You've talked to the owner many times, like that kind of stuff. You know, you just show that not only are you serious, but you've put in more time and effort than maybe somebody who already owns a Beauty Supply Company in another state. They probably haven't done all those things, but you have. So it's it. It's not as preferred as if you already are in the industry, you know, like, if you're, I don't know if you're going to buy a nail salon and you're already, you know, a beautician or something, a cosmetologist or whatever, like, that obviously helps. But it's not going to stop you from getting the loan if you don't, but if they ask you, and you just say, Nope, no experience at all, and that's all you say that could get in the way. You know you have to be able to sell yourself. It's almost like a it's almost like an interview when you're talking to the lender, because just like with the broker, you know they want to know you're serious. They want to know that. You're, you're safe to give, to give money. They want to know that you can take the deal all the way to the end and close on it. Yeah, you have, you have to be able to to sell yourself to them, and your skills and your desire to actually acquire a business so, but you can convey that even without experience in that particular field. All right,

Unknown Speaker  45:32
okay, so I'm gonna go ahead and stop this.
