Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with the money Language Academy. It is Thursday, June 19, 2025

Unknown Speaker  00:10
and this is the the

Unknown Speaker  00:14
business acquisition course.

Speaker 1  00:17
So what we're going to do is we're going to add to that knowledge base a little bit, and tonight, what we're going to be talking about is, I get quite is, I get questions all the time. People say they'll ask the question, what is a good business to buy? And I think that is almost that's it's not even a good question, because the reason I say that is because it's different for everybody. A good, a good business for me to buy, might not be a good a good business for you to buy. So to answer that question in terms like you know you should look at these types of businesses, doesn't always answer that question fully. So it it requires a little bit more in depth investigation and and searching into what you are suited to and what is a good business for you, for your skills, for your deficiencies, for your time, for your money, all those things make a difference. So, so that's what we're going to talk about tonight. Okay, so I think it's very important to understand why some of these businesses have high failure rates. Okay, now there are some businesses that I pretty much I poo poo every time somebody asks me about these businesses because they are so risky and or prone to failure that it just doesn't make sense for especially a first time business owner, to attempt it. One of them that's not on the list that I'll just mention, that was in a live last night that I was asked about was hotels. Hotels are a terrible business to get in unless you're already an experienced operator. The margins are thin. They're very expensive. You know, they're not really even businesses. They're really just short term rental real estate, more than anything, but it requires a lot of overhead, really expensive real estate, and it's really tough. So that's kind of an example of the things we're going to talk about tonight, but I want to throw some common businesses out here so you can kind of see what I'm talking about, and I rank these in the ones that are most prone to fail, which I think people are going to be surprised by the first one. So this is, this is pretty fresh data, and ATMs have really gone down in the last few years. ATMs about five years ago, it wasn't that bad of an investment, but people just don't use cash like they used to, you know, used to need to get cash for Amazon, you know, like Facebook, marketplace, places like that, where you, you know, maybe even fares or street markets, you know, you had to have cash. Now, everybody's got square that sticks into their their phone and or their tablet, and you can still swipe your card. It's super easy, and the margins are very small anyway. Even when ATMs were doing pretty well, you had to have 2030, of those things before it made it worth it. So people just don't use them like they used to. So new ATM companies and people that buy ATM businesses have a 95% failure rate, which is wild. I guess I didn't sort these exactly, right, so I'll jump to Amazon. FBA is next. So that's 93% so if you don't know what FBA is, that's Fulfillment by Amazon. Okay? So that means that you have, you know, you might be an affiliate, or something like that, and you are Amazon is actually sending the stuff where it needs to go, and handling all that. And the problem with it is so you pick a product and you do whatever Amazon can set the fees, or you even maybe do the fees your year, or the product yourself, and Amazon sets those fees. And if you get really popular, Amazon will steal it from you. That's one thing, they will actually do the same product and and completely cut you out. That's one thing that happens. Another thing is, if you get some poor reviews, they'll just shut you down. Like, if you get a several bad reviews, whether they're legit or not, they can just come in and say, Oh no, you're done. You can't do this FBA anymore, and then you're screwed. So the next one is restaurants. You know, I'm always harping on restaurants, how they are very difficult to run, unless you're a good operator. So there's competition from everywhere. There's a restaurant in every corner. There are franchises everywhere, huge amounts of corporate marketing, and they can buy huge amounts of inventory at a time. They they have less cost. And it's just, it's just not something, unless you're a master chef that maybe went to school and you are just, you know, have some kind of hardcore need. That people haven't thought about. It's just a bad business to get into. The next would be retail. So retail is dying. Everybody sees it. The corner shops, the mom and pop style stuff that's on the corner, you know, the real estate expenses and and having people, you know, sales people and and clerks and all that kind of stuff. It makes it very difficult, because so many people just order stuff online. And what you'll find is most of the retail that is still thriving. It's more of an advertisement than it is for them to make money. So they have these stores, you know, like, if you go to Chicago and you walk the Magic Mile, which you'll see Louis Vuitton and, you know, Gucci and Versace and all those places that's more of that's not even like a regular retail. That's a retail for people who want to be seen buying that stuff. Your average retail is doesn't work like that, like they're making money from online sales and just barely keeping their head above water. So it's not a great business to be in. And then gyms, gyms pop up and die all the time. I'm sure, if you think about in your community, in your town, that you've seen a couple of gyms, it might even have been a great idea. So there was one in my city. It was called t3 fitness, and it was a huge building, and they renovated it, and it was awesome. It had every kind of class that you could think of, like it was a one stop shop for everything fitness, and it folded in less than six months because they had to buy all that equipment. They had to rehab the building that it requires a large space, that that equipment is extremely expensive. So by the time they dumped all that money into it, they couldn't get enough customers to come in to to pay the debt, and it folded, and it's still a vacant building that says t3 fitness, and this is, like, two years later, so still sitting there. So you don't want to be in these businesses. Other than that, I'll say it's more tailored to what suits you. I'm just warning you, you know, I'm not saying absolutely 100% don't get into these. It's a personal choice, but be forewarned. So on the other hand, why do some of them succeed? Right? And I say it all the time, in posts and lives, essential services, whether it's home services, you know, like plumbing and HVAC, things that no matter what, people need them, that's the kind of stuff you're looking for. I don't care if it's dog grooming, even like manicures, pedicure some people get manicures pedicures, no matter what. Doesn't matter what's going on, they're going to get it. And if not, they're going to get their haircuts. They're going to get their their hair done. They're going to do all that stuff that also is an essential service,

Unknown Speaker  07:46
anything with with septic and plumbing,

Speaker 1  07:52
you know, fixing tires, tire repair, tire retreading, like stuff that just is, is required for people to live day to day, and then recurring demand. So anything that you can set somebody up on a subscription service is huge. That's why car washes the new car washes with subscription services where you pay 50 bucks a month you get unlimited washes. That is, is a great way to jumpstart because what will happen is people might use it one or two times, and then during the winter, they forget they have it. So on their downtime, they're still paying so it's, it's a really, it's a really good business to have, and it keeps your revenue going throughout the year. Same thing with like lawn care services, landscaping, you set somebody up on a two week rotation or one week rotation, and whether they need their grass mode or not, generally, people don't call and cancel. They just go ahead and get it anyway. So you're you can count on that revenue coming in, and then lower overhead is huge. That's why the gyms are failing at such high rate, because the overhead is so high. So if you can keep your costs down, for a small business, that's huge, so low overhead would be the opposite of retail. Where retail, you have high inventory costs, you got to pay upfront. You know, you're you're basically starting behind the eight ball when you buy the business. Even a liquor store, liquor stores are for sale all the time. And what's difficult about liquor stores is the inventory you have to, you buy the business based on the financials of the business, and then you usually have to structure if the if the profit and, you know, doesn't support it, you might have to do some kind of a side deal, or some seller financing situation to get the inventory so you can continue, you know, but it's a it's a bunch of money to drop at the beginning of a business. So you want to try to try to remember that. So you want something with low overhead, it doesn't cost a lot to get in there and start running it. For instance, auto repair like all you have to do for the most part. There is, you have to be able to pay your employees, you know. So you pay your employees those first couple of weeks. You have to have enough working capital to pay them. But you don't have to worry about the parts, because those are ordered on demand. You don't have to worry about, you know, a bunch of equipment that's usually in the deal, that's in your FF and E. So that's an example of a low overhead business and then resistant to downturns. You know, no matter what is going on with the economy, people are still going to do it. I really like the medical field is probably a good example of that. And I know if you don't have a medical background, it can be difficult to get into those businesses, but if you do, you have a leg up on the, you know, regular business acquirers, because you can, you can get those medical clinics and things like that. But there's also, you know, medical transport. You generally don't have to be licensed for medical transport. You You just need a chauffeur's license, senior living, assisted living, things like that. You can generally do those or hire a nurse, like one nurse on staff, and then you can still run the business. So those are huge, um, you know, bookkeeping, all that. So I think we're going to, yeah, I'm just giving some some solid choices on the other side of the spectrum that maybe you might not consider when you know, because everybody's looking for laundromats, right? That's the big thing. Everybody wants a laundromat or a car wash. But here's some other examples. Well, not accouting, that's accounting. You can't if you're not an accountant, you can't be majority owner in an accounting firm, but you can buy a bookkeeping firm. Regular people can do bookkeeping. You You don't have to have a math degree, you don't have to generally do anything. So they're going to keep your books, and then they're going to forward those books to your accountant at tax time, and the account is going to take care of it. So that day to day stuff like, you know, you might take pictures of all of your receipts and send it to the bookkeeper, and the bookkeeper puts that in there. You know, those are great businesses. So recurring demand, recession resistant, you know, one of the worst things about being a business owner is your taxes and your books. It's, it's the bane of my existence. But if you can farm that out to somebody or create a business that does it, then you have a bookkeeping business that handles all the books for all of your businesses. It's great. It's like I said, with the healthcare services, medical transport, Senior Living. You know, these are things that people have to buy or pay for, and a lot of times the insurance is paying for it, Medicare, Medicaid is going to pay for a lot of that stuff. So, so that helps, you know, beat the auto repair horse to death. Property Management is another one, but not just traditional property management. You can do Airbnb hosting where you don't necessarily have to get in. It's low overhead. You're not buying the property. You're just hosting for other people. So they might, they might be trying to increase their revenue, but you just handle the bookings, and you do some advertising, and you decorate and things like that, and you just handle every guest day to day, anybody can do that you don't want. And every state that I've looked at so far, short term rentals and Airbnb hosting does not require any kind of a license or broker or real estate agent license, to my knowledge. And then vending machines, it doesn't get much lower overhead than vending machines. You buy the machines, you put some snacks in there, and you're good to go, like you're not paying a lot of employees. You're the equipment can be little expensive, but not compared to, you know, buying big, heavy equipment for construction. And you know, I mean, you can actually find vending machines that are decent quality on Facebook marketplace, they sell them all the time. And then self storage. Self Storage is kind of, it's any business that is really tied to real estate is can be good because you always have an asset that stands good for the loan. The SBA, you know, likes to lend for self storage. They like to lend for RV storage. They like to lend for campsites, because there's always land, there's that real property that can be used to, you know, as a hard asset for that loan. It really helps with the funding. And then skilled trades, the plumbing, HVAC, anything, sepsi tank, electricians, all that stuff always going to be solid. So now we get to the nitty gritty of what is a good business for you. So it's not just thinking about what are, you know, what's popular right now, and doing the whole laundromat thing or the car wash thing, it's, it's more what's suited to your passion and to your skills. You have to be honest about your weaknesses. You know, everybody knows, like, okay, maybe I'm good at this, but I'm not very good at this. So, you know, maybe you're. Really good at dealing with people, but you're not good with numbers. You probably wouldn't want a bookkeeping company, right? Or if you did, you would want somebody that was really solid with the numbers to be your operator. And then you could do advertising. You could concentrate on that, but just solo businesses for you to get in and try to figure out it's probably not something that you would want to get into if you're really good at logistics, like you're very organized, and you want to be able to, you know, you like things, set up, systems in place, everything automated, and all that kind of stuff. Well, maybe you want a trucking company. Maybe you want, you know, where you can manage a whole lot of machinery. And you know, whatever, whatever your passion is and your skill there, but just be honest, even sit down and think, Okay, I'm going to write five of my skills and five of my weaknesses and think about what businesses would be suited to those Okay. Sales is a huge skill. Sales is a skill if you can talk people into liking you, liking your product, using your service that pretty much serves every business, but you don't have to have that to be a good business owner, because you can hire that. That is also a skill you can hire, but just just know what you are good at and what you are bad at, and try to pick something that suits your skill set, and then something that you're not going to hate doing, something you're not going to hate being a part of. You know, if you aren't someone who believes that, you know, like say you're not a drinker, you never drink. You don't like alcohol, don't buy a liquor store. You're gonna be miserable dealing with that. If you hate dealing with people, don't, don't buy something that sales heavy, where you're gonna have to deal with people and and stuff all the time. It's where you're gonna be stressed out about it. Because you know, every now and then, even though you have a manager, you're still gonna have to deal with things. There are certain things, like, if you go back and look at a couple videos, certain things that owners have to do that's part of your ownership role. It's not really suited to the GM or to the operator. You have to deal with some big things. So just remember that. And then what would be considered a win for you? You know what type of business will get you the things that you're looking for. When it comes to the profit, you need to define that number. What kind of profit are you looking for? You know, are you? You know, you have to realistically think about this. My very first goal when I started getting into investing and and, you know, buying businesses was I wanted a I wanted an investment, regardless of what it was that would pay for my mortgage. I was like, okay, that's the like, the first thing, like, no matter what, if I can get passive income that pays for my mortgage, we're safe. You know, my family's safe, because if I lose my job, if I get sick, if something happens, even if, you know, I pass away or something, this investment, this asset, is paying for my mortgage. That was a very small attainable goal at the beginning. So if that is your goal, that's a great goal to have. If you want something larger, you know, like, Okay, you want $100,000 you want $200,000 whatever it is, you just need to realistically think on this first one, what that profit should be to make it a win for you and make it worth it for you. And then the time commitment. How much time can you put into the business? No business comes with zero time, none there. It just doesn't exist. There are businesses that can be very little of your time. But at the beginning, no matter what, you're going to have to invest time into it, because you're going to have to transfer everything over. There's a lot of moving pieces that you have to wrangle in and get moving in the same directions. And then you can start pulling back from the business. But at first, it's going to require some time. There's there are no free lunches. All of these business opportunities are going to require some down payment, and they're going to require some time. And that's just a realistic look at what it's going to be. So doesn't have to be all your money, and it doesn't have to be all your time, but it's going to require pieces of them. And then, are you going, as your goal to own just one business and then you're good? Or do you want to own many businesses? Do you want to own a bunch of businesses for the rest of your life and just collect, you know, semi passive income from them? Do you want to own one business, build it up and grow that business as much you can, and then sell it in three years. Sell it in five years. But whatever it is, whatever you want to get out of this, you need to define that before you buy the business, because that makes a difference in the type of business that you should buy. So for instance, if you want to grow a business as. Much as possible in three to five years, then tech might be a better option, because those businesses tend to grow at higher growth rates. They're more expensive for a reason, because the reward is potentially higher, whereas a smaller business, like a mom and pop tire shop that has a ceiling, you're only going to get so high. You can only do so much with the real estate and the building and everything you can maximize the revenue per square foot. But there's a there's a ceiling there, and you're going to hit that ceiling, and you might buy it. It's already at that ceiling. So just know what your exit strategy and your goals are before you get in. And the next thing, you should list your top 10. So we've talked about all these different types, all your skills, all your weaknesses, and you should, you should be able to come up with a potential of 10 businesses. So if it's pest control, if it's dog grooming, auto repair, if it's a salon, whatever it is, they could be, you know, pretty different and and in vastly different sectors, but if they still suit your skill set, and, you know, allow you to overcome your weaknesses, then it's a good possibility. So just try to come up with 10 of them and write them all down, and think about your network too. Do you know a lot of people in the trucking industry like where you could reach out and get customers in there, so you If so, your network adds value to the business on day one. You know you can. If you know someone that has a construction company and they have a fleet of trucks, and you're thinking, Well, okay, if I buy an auto repair shop, I know I can call this guy and I can get his business when his contract in. So I have a fleet contract with this company, like things like that. Utilize your network, and think about how you can use it in the future. And then you take all those things that we talked about and apply it, to apply your Buy Box to it, so you've got all those, those 10 businesses, you know what your profit, what you want it to be. And for anybody that's been in the community for very long, you know how the multiple works. So based on the amount of seller discretionary earnings, you should know what your price range is going to be. You know what down payment. You can bring that 10% down payment. So if you're saying, Okay, I'm looking for $100,000

Unknown Speaker  22:26
in cash flow, then

Speaker 1  22:29
you have to think about, is that 100,000 after IT services the debt, the debt, or is that 100,000 after I pay it off, those kind of things too? Are you going to quit your job? Are you going to be an owner operator at that place? You know, that's the time commitment portion. You know, it doesn't matter. There's no wrong or right answer in this section. And what is, what suits, suits you? If you're looking to drop your nine to five job because you don't like it, it's not supporting the lifestyle that you want. And instead, become a business owner that you're going to be there, you know, like a full time job, because it's going to give you twice the, you know, the money that you were making before, twice the income. That is completely acceptable. If you feel like you can devote a couple of days or a day to it, maybe a Saturday, and you still keep your job and you run a semi absentee that too. That's what that's that's fine. Or if you want something that's going to be as absentee as possible, where you're just going to check in once a week, once a month, whatever, and, you know, manage it from a distance, that kind of stuff. Then okay, just know going in that that's your goal. And then where, just because there are not a lot of opportunities near you, if you're willing to look relocate, the SBA will allow you to, you know, if you want to go to Hawaii, if you find a business in Oahu that you really love, you can get an SBA loan in Kentucky and relocate to Oahu and buy that business Like but you just have to be willing to relocate. Now, they're not going to do it if you're not going to relocate, but otherwise they will. You know, 200 mile radius otherwise, but know if you're willing to relocate, because if you are, that opens up your search to all over the US. But if you're not, you should, shouldn't even be entertaining the option. Then the next steps. You have your Buy Box. You have your businesses. You should hit the websites. Look at what's available in your area. Don't just leave the filters open wide open on biz, buy, sell, and look at every single business out there. No narrow it down to the to what you just filled out, what your price range is, what your absent is, fully absentee, or whatever. And then put plumbing, you know if that's if that's the business, see what comes up. Write down those possibilities. See if it's a good deal. Try to get the financials, whatever. And then move on to the next one, and just continue to. Refine that buy box over time, and then if you're finding that you're, you're not seeing a lot of options with those 10 industries with with that Buy Box, then you're going to have to go out and what everybody hates and is talk to people. You're going to have to, you know, go from business to business, you know, and make it known everywhere in your city that, hey, you know, hi, you know, I'm Bobby, and I, I buy businesses, especially these types of businesses. And you know, everybody you meet, you tell them that, and then you go in, you go to maybe look through, you know, your financials, like your bank statements and see where your money's going and say, okay, my money's going to this car wash. You know, I pay for a subscription service. Maybe I'll stop by there and talk to the employees and see if I can find who owns this thing and tell them, you know, praise them on their business. And you know, if you ever think about selling, I might be interested in this. This is a cool, you know, I buy these businesses, you know, whatever. I don't care what it even if it's a restaurant, I hope not. But even if it's a restaurant, you go there and eat, you really like it, and it makes money, and you feel like you could, you could take it to the next level and talk to the owner. Hey, I buy restaurants, especially pizzerias, and I'm the best dough maker this side of the Mississippi, whatever it is like you just want to make it known to as many people as you can, because eventually you're going to get this random phone call or email and they're going to say, hey, you still interested in this business, because it happens to me. Now, it didn't at first, but it took a while. People you know know that this is what I do in this area, and they send me opportunities. They'll say, Hey, you should go talk to, this happened, like a few months ago. You should go talk to, what's her name, Kimmy. I think her name is Kimmy. She is selling her religious bookstore, which I was a failing business, and it didn't work out, but just the fact that it was an off market deal that was a really low price. If it had been the type of business that I was into, I probably would have bought it, and I would have got it for a discount, and no one else would have had a chance to bid against it. It just would have been, you know, because she was just fed up. She was ready to move on. So just know those opportunities can exist if you make them happen. So don't be discouraged if you put your Buy Box in for all 10 and you see very little options. You know you can also on biz, buy, sell after you get that buy box and you get that search, save that search. Save that search, sign up for the email. You know whether it's once a day, or whatever, and then something that hits your buy box, you'll know immediately. You know. You can set it up for every hour, you can set it up for once a day, you can set it up for once a week, and that way you at least know when something hits, and if you know it's already meet your criteria. So you can go look at it immediately and say, Okay, I'm going to reach out try to get the financials. Maybe you can beat everyone else to the loi, but timing can be key for sure. So yeah, I just wanted to refine that, because I can't tell you how many times I've gotten that question, what are the best businesses to buy? And there's just, you know, you can say businesses that are less likely to fail, and you can talk about businesses that are more likely to fail, but everybody's situation is different. You know, when? When tran, tran got that HPAC company, that's a that is owner operator company. You know, he wanted a different lifestyle, a better like a, you know, he wanted more income, but he also wanted to work at the business. It was a perfect fit for him. That might not have been a perfect fit for me or you, but it was exactly perfect for what he needed. So that's what everybody should be searching for. Not that perfect deal. It's no such thing as a perfect deal. It does not exist. But there are good deals all over the place. If you just look and a good deal for you might not be a good deal for me, and vice versa. So just, just remember that, and don't get discouraged. Sometimes you're going to have to kiss a lot of babies. You know, I think the average I was reading an article the other day, and they said that the average business, like the the person looking to acquire business for the first time, does at least 30 analyzes. So they'll find a business that meets their criteria. They'll look for one, and they analyze the financials. And it takes around 30 of those before you find the one that's yours, right? How many, how many times, how many days did you go on before you found your significant other? Right? A lot, very few people are going to marry the first person they meet. You know from grade school, you know that first, the first crush you had. It just doesn't work like that. You have to, you have to kiss a lot of frogs before you find the right one. Same thing with business,

Unknown Speaker  29:55
okay, well, I mean, that's all I had. Does

Speaker 1  29:59
anybody have any. Questions on that, like, like, especially sometimes it's hard to determine what your weaknesses are, or sometimes even what your skills are, what you're suited to, because until you get exposed to an industry, you might not know you're good at it. You know.

Speaker 2  30:22
No Nobody. No, I don't have any question. I always think valid things to think about the list to make. I haven't narrowed down what it's going to take. The reason I joined this class is more or less what sparked me or the interest is in your video saying that about spending, you know, putting systems in place and spending like I would want to be an absentee owner. So for me, it would be, I don't care what the business is, it's what, what necessarily would fit more better fit that model.

Speaker 1  30:57
So sure, and there are, there are a lot, there are a lot of businesses that are more suited to absentee. You know, sometimes you just have to have a high cash flow business so you can put a solid operator in there, or promote from within that. Sometimes that's the option. But, you know, like one that's not good for fully absenteeism would be, say, a vending machine business that has one employee and three machines. You know you're going to be, you're going to be driving around, filling those machines, restocking those machines yourself. You know, now, if it's one that has 300 machines and nine employees, that's a different situation, right? But that's, that's like, so you're applying one of your criteria to it, and your Buy Box to it. So it might not necessarily be the the type of business itself, it's the situation the business is in. It's the these, this amount of employees, this amount of cash flow, this location, that kind of stuff, you know? So that's why, you know, when people ask the question, what's a great what's the best business to buy? It's it can be different. You know, that's the same business that's still vending machines, but it's vastly different situations.

Unknown Speaker  32:11
Absolutely. Yeah,

Speaker 1  32:20
Brooke, you're on 30. Well, that's good. You're getting, you are getting close. Yeah, I don't know how many I have at this point. I've, I'm sure I've added 1000s easily, easily, yeah. Shane, is the analysis on the school documents and the school documents, like the template to now analyze the business, yeah, yeah. So there we've, we've done that a couple of times live, you know, use the the money language analyzer, 5000 you know, is what I called it. But it's got the, you know, you take those financials. There's a few documents. There's a few classes that go through it. One of them will just kind of give you an overview of the spreadsheet where you can do the calculations. And the other one is, after you've gotten all the financials, you know, you've got the P and L's, you're relating the P and L's to the listing, and then you're relating the tax returns to the P and L's, just to make sure that everything matches up. So it's about the first stage is about just determining if the numbers work at what what you've been given. Then the next stage is to analyze the numbers to make sure they're truthful and factual, you know. So those are the kind of the stages there. So the analyzer is mainly when you first get the analysis, or sometimes, if you have enough from the listing, you can plug it in, but usually you got to wait till you get the profit and loss. But that'll give you the DSCR, it'll give you the cap rate, it'll give you, you know what your payments are going to be. All that kind of stuff got it makes sense. Thank you. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  34:09
Okay, anybody else questions on this topic?

Speaker 1  34:16
No, okay, all right, we'll go on to the next.
