Speaker 1  00:02
Hey everybody. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is Thursday, September 25 2025 we're going to be dipping back into the business acquisition curriculum, and tonight, what I wanted to talk about mainly was the owner mindset as opposed to the employee mindset. And what I've seen from especially from Boomer owners, is that even though they own the business, they consistently still have an employee mindset. So they believe that the only way to grow a business is to put more more of their own time and in it to, you know, to cut expenses, to cut corners, to micromanage things like that, to get in one groove and stay there and just be comfortable. And I'm what I want to do tonight is challenge that philosophy and say that that's not the only way forward, and as a matter of fact, that's the opposite way of how you should be viewing business ownership. So let's go ahead and get this thing going. I'm Can everyone see my screen and the little weird image that chat GPT created for me? So, yeah, so the employee mindset versus the owner mindset, I think we're all you know, familiar with the employee mindset, right? You're trading your time for some security. You're trading your time for rent money, for food money, oftentimes, kind of barely getting by. But there's a certain comfort in that, because, you know, here's your set hours, it's nine to five or eight to four, whatever it is, five days a week, you know that you have your weekends free. You know that every other Friday, or whenever it is, you're going to get your paycheck. You know pretty much what it's going to be. There's a certain comfort in that. And for 99% of the population, I think that's okay, right? I think that's kind of the the American way, what, what our parents told us, what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to stay in school, learn a trade, go to college, whatever it is, get a good job, work at that job for 20 to 30 years, hopefully retire at some point. And when you're 65 you can actually enjoy your life, or 70 or 75 or whatever it is. And I don't agree with that at all. I don't, I don't. I think that you should step outside of that. I don't know it's almost even like The Matrix, like until you understand how things work and see the world for what it is, and you see those people who step outside, they take risks, and what they end up doing is they get their time back when they're 35 when they're 40. So they're retired at 40, even though maybe not officially. They own a bunch of real estate. They own a whole bunch of businesses. They own whatever. But they have their time to themselves because they've done it the right way. Sometimes I sit, you know, I'll go to one of my businesses, and I'll sit there, and I'll just kind of hang out and watch the customers come in. And it's funny, you can almost tell the people that are financially free by especially the men, if they come in and it's like a Tuesday and they're wearing white shorts, and they have no care in the world. You know, they come in, they're doing whatever they're like, maybe in their 50s, and it's a it's a Tuesday morning, and they have their full day free. They're not worried about money. They're not worried about what the bill is for whatever service they came in for. That's the kind of financial freedom that that I'm talking about. That's what I hope all of our goals are, where we can have our time back, have financial freedom, be able to do whatever it is that we want to do, and not spend our time toiling away to make someone else rich. That's that's kind of my whole point with this. So I think we can all agree. And you know, we've talked about it over and over again, you're not going to gain wealth from a nine to five job. You're just not. The only people that get wealthy from a nine to five job are people with extremely specialized skills, surgeons, corporate lawyers, people in big finance, those, you know, those kind of people with that kind of skill set can can accrue wealth from a nine to five for the rest of us, even, even if you do have a skill if you're an electrician, if you're an engineer, whatever, it's unlikely that you're going to get wealthy from that nine to five. You have to invest more time into yourself than you do into your job. Job, and at the beginning, that's a very daunting proposition, because you're spending 40 hours a week, you know, putting time into making your boss rich. Because essentially, that's what you're doing. You're trading your time to make them money and give you financial security. So you have to have a mental mindset shift to where you're going to start investing more time into yourself. Oftentimes, that means, you know, coming on a weeknight, when you have to work tomorrow, and you come on a Thursday night and you're listening to some jerk like me talk about how you can get financial freedom right? That kind of sacrifice, getting up early to, you know, to learn whatever, to listen to podcasts about investing, to whatever. There's a wealth of information out there, but most people will not choose to devote their time to that. Instead, they're going to go home tired from their job, and they're going to watch Netflix, and they're going to go to sleep and they're going to wake up the next day and they're going to do the same thing over and over again. It's easy to get complacent and stuck in that rut, because it's everything else comes with risk. Everything else comes with people saying, why are you wasting your time with that? You have a good job, or, you know, why are you gonna take the money that you've saved and and buy an investment property when you could just, you know, hold on to that. Put it in savings account. Never touch it again. And if anything bad happens, you can use it for that. Those are the kind of naysayers that you have to battle day to day. So it comes down to a mindset, and then the number one thing I want you to take from tonight is that your time is the most precious thing that you have. I don't care if I told you right now that I would give you $1 million tonight. I'll give everybody $1 million everybody would be like, Oh, that's awesome. I'll jump on that. Let's Yeah. You know, here's my cash app. I don't think you can send a million dollars in cash app, but if you could, there you go. But if I told you, but you only had tomorrow to spend that million, and then your life would be over. No one would do it, right? So what does that tell you, that time is more valuable than money, and yet we're willing to give all the time, 40 hours a week, for 20 to 30 years to someone else instead of ourselves. So that's where we have to make that pivot and that shift. So instead of trading your time for, you know, making someone else, wealthy or and just giving us financial security, you need to be able to trade your your time initially, but eventually your money for more money, because money gives you time, money gives you freedom. Money gives you choices. Money gives you options. It's not going to buy you happiness. I get that, and that's what everybody says. But I've been broke and I've been wealthy, and it's a lot easier to be happy when you're wealthy. I can tell you that for sure, because it's really easy to be sad when you're broke, but you can, you can find that happy medium in there where you have time, you have money and you have freedom. You shouldn't be obsessed one way or the other, but, but you can find that middle ground. So you have to shift from that stability focus where you're like, Okay, I know every Friday or every other week, I'm going to get my check, I'm going to have my health insurance, I'm going to have my little things, I'm going to save 10% in case, you know, my furnace goes out or whatever, and I'm going to, I'm going to sit on that forever. You have to shift from that to be able to take a little bit of risk and look for opportunities to take your money that you're saving and you're earning and push it somewhere else where it can make more money and that, that's a difficult mind shift, you know, because what we're used to is we go to work, we're told what to do. Our roles are easily defined. We have a certain amount of comfort there, because we're, you know, we don't have to think outside the box generally. We don't have to worry about, you know, the electric bill at work. We don't have to worry about whether the business is going to have a downturn and where the money is going to come from for payroll, all the stuff that your boss is worrying about and business owners are worried about, you don't have to worry about that. But it comes. It comes at a cost because you're limiting yourself. So the entrepreneur looks for opportunity, where the employee looks for comfort, the entrepreneur looks for value creation, where the employee looks for comp.

Unknown Speaker  10:00
Complacency and and security,

Speaker 1  10:04
and you have to get to a point where you're okay with taking risks, not any risk, not like taking all your money and buying XRP tomorrow and hoping that it goes to the moon, because there are people out there that are doing that too, but making educated well thought out risks that can that that won't cripple you. But at the same time are, you know, the juice is worth the squeeze. So things like, you've saved $10,000 what do you do with it? Do you buy a CD, which is a decent investment, or do you use that to buy five vending machines that you can put somewhere that are going to bring you potentially next year, $20,000 in profit, things like that, things where you can, you can devote your time upfront, but have a long runway of potential profit in the future. So I always talk about how buying a business is front loaded effort. So you buy a business, you put, you know, 18 hour days in for three, four weeks, maybe, you know, at most, two months. But then you're given 10 years of consistent profits. You know, that kind of trade off, to me, is well worth it, as opposed to, I'm going to give my boss 40 hours a week for 20 years, and then hopefully I have enough to retire on that kind of stuff. But it requires mental shifts, right? That your time is valuable, that you want to own things. You don't want to just use them and be a part of them. You need, you need an ownership attitude, whether it's stocks, real estate, businesses, whatever, the people, people that are gaining wealth are the ones that own it, not the ones that use it, not the ones that work for it, and you have to make your own way, and you have to believe in yourself that when problems arise, as they inevitably will, that you can solve them. There's, you know, I mean, there have been several times where it's two in the morning and something bad has happened in a business. And I'm like, Why did I buy this business? Holy shit. This was a mistake. Then you then I fast forward a day later, six hours later, whatever I figured out, a way through it, and then a month later, I'm like, this is one of the best things that's ever happened to me. But in that moment, you have to be able to stomach that stress, because it will come up. I don't care if you buy a small business, a large business, if you are in a duplex, a four Plex, large multifamily property, whatever you're going to have those moments where you think, why did I do this? I could have just stayed in my regular job. I could have saved my money and not worried about all this. But you got to believe in yourself and know that there's always a way through every problem, and it's it's totally worth it, but if you can't stomach that stress in the short term, this life is not for you. Okay? So you know you have to be looking for cash flowing businesses. We know that. We've talked about it many times. You know, identifying profitable opportunities, it doesn't matter what it is. If the guy, you know, your neighbor two houses down is selling a car, and you know that that car is worth $2,000 more than they're selling it for. Are you willing to take the risk of going down there and buying that car, sitting on it for a month, and selling it to make $2,000 not everybody's comfortable with that, but that's that mindset that I'm talking about. Is buying assets that will make you money. Because, you know, especially with the business, we've seen over and over and over again that buying a business is the quickest way to gain wealth. I think I just posted something yesterday that was talking, you know, talking about the cash flow from a business being 10 to 20 times greater than real estate. And I get a lot of pushback from that, but the numbers, the numbers, just show that over and over and over again. But it's hard for people to believe that, and it's all about buying assets that cash flow. You know, you buy that first business, whatever it is, you get the cash flow from it, and then you make a decision, what am I going to do with this cash flow? You could, you know, buy a brand new car. You could be flashy, you could pay your house off. You could do this. You could there's so many things you can do with that cash flow, you know, or you could use those profits to their. Diversify into stocks and bonds. You could buy real estate with it to get the tax deductions. You could buy another business, but you have to figure out what it is that you want to do. But the ownership attitude and the the entrepreneurship mindset tells you that what you shouldn't do is use that money to buy an asset that's going to depreciate, to buy something like a brand new BMW, so you can compete with your friends and people in your neighborhoods that that's not what someone with a with a wealth mindset is going to do,

Unknown Speaker  15:40
and it's all about leveraging credit.

Unknown Speaker  15:43
Credit is a tool

Speaker 1  15:46
that gives you power to buy things that you normally couldn't do, even if it's buying your own home, you know. But if you couldn't get a loan to buy a home, you would save for 20 years, 25 years, to buy a home and then live in it for, you know, 10 years and then die. Like, what's the point of that? Like that doesn't make sense. So credit gives us the ability to buy something now and and enjoy it while we can. And when it comes to buying assets, it allows us to buy something now that can cash flow and pay for itself, and also allow us to build wealth. So it just gives us power. And obviously you never want to finance a liability. If it cash flows, it makes sense, but you have to give yourself wiggle room in order to do that, so you don't if you're going to buy a single family home, you're going to try to rent that out to somebody, and the mortgage payment is going to be 1500 a month, and the rent is going to be 1500 a month. Obviously, that's not a good deal. You have to. You have to think about the bad things that can happen, whether it's a business or real estate or any investment and be able to weather any storm. And we'll talk about, I don't think we've talked about, how to evaluate a single family home and duplexes and things like that to make sure that they're a safe investment, but we'll do that probably next week, and then structuring the loans wisely. So just because someone will give you a loan doesn't mean you should take it. There are crazy balloon payments where you, you know, you get a loan for five years and they expect a complete payoff after that five years, you know, there, there's not enough margin in there to where you can make money, and you also have to once you get a loan. Actively watch rates right now. The rates have gone down. They've gone down substantially in the last six months. So this is the time that people are starting to refinance. But if you don't keep up on that, if you don't know how those things work, you don't know if it's a good time to refinance. I'm getting to refinance. I'm getting ready to refinance a four Plex that I have at like 8.125 it cash flows. It does well at 8.125 but now I can get it at like 66869, something like that, which substantially increases the cash flow month to month. And I might even, because of appreciation, might be able to pull out some money and use that to invest in something else. But you have to keep up with that, you have to know what's going on. It's nothing is completely passive, including real estate. I've already talked about this right investing more time, more of your time, as opposed to delegating. So what I've seen from especially Boomer owners is how they think that they need to grow their business, is to work harder, to spend more time there if they want to, as opposed to, for instance, as opposed to charging more, getting their, you know, their prices up to where the market should be, they think, Oh, well, We'll stay open two hours more, or we'll open on Saturday and Sunday, instead of, you know, just increasing the cost of their services to be what the market rate is. They just don't see that. They just think that their time is infinite, and they'll just devote more time to it, and that'll increase profits. And that's fine. I don't, I don't agree with that at all. You know, I've said it many times if, if I can delegate a process to someone else, if I do something that's, you know, 100% but I can delegate it to someone who does it at 80% it's worth it, because it's 100% awesome that I didn't have to freaking do it, right? Because I have my time back, and we're still making money. And they'll also, you know, they'll think about saving pennies instead of missing dollars. And I see this in advertising all all the time, as opposed to so advertising, a good rule of thumb should be five. Percent of your revenue monthly should be spent advertising. In general, that it's not all industries, but that's a good rule of thumb. So if you're making 100 grand a month at your business, you should be spending 5000 a month in advertising, in marketing. And that's really hard for people to grasp, right, because they think that is a lot of money. $5,000 a month is a lot, you know, that's that's a mansion payment, almost. That's a large payment that can do so much, that can buy more equipment, they can do whatever. But if you put that $5,000 towards marketing and promotions, then next month, likely you're going to make 110,000 the month after that, you're going to you're going to make 120 it will pay for itself if you just commit to it and do it the right way. But it's it's hard to write that check, that very first one, when you're barely scraping by to get that 5% of general revenue, because you might not be making much profit. That might be your entire profit for the month, but we have a growth mindset, right? We're trying to grow this business. The other one is not modernizing. They find a way that works, and that's the way you do things. That's that complacency, like, here's what I know. This has worked for 10 years, and this is a way we're always going to do things. So when new technology comes around, they don't want to use it. When AI can answer the phone, they're like, Oh, nobody likes that. We're going to miss out on customers. We're going to whatever. But they won't even try it. You have to be willing to try something and fail, because you'll learn from the failures, and who knows, you might find something that's way better than what you're currently doing. But if you don't, at least entertain the idea you're stuck, and you never stop learning, I don't care what it is. I don't care what business you buy. I don't care what if it's stocks, if it's real estate, whatever, you should always learn when you get in the car and you're going to travel somewhere, especially if you're by yourself, listen to a podcast instead of a romance novel or the radio, you know, whatever it is that you like to do, like learn, use that opportunity, which is normally dead time if you get on a plane, you know, download going Spotify and download a podcast about whatever it is you're interested In, and investments in finance, whatever, use that time to learn, never waste time, because it's finite. So so just to wrap this up, I know I've kind of been on a soapbox tonight, but think like an owner, not just a worker. Balance your portfolio, whatever it is that you want to invest in, whether it's businesses, stocks, real estate, whatever, try to balance everything with traditional investments, just like that decade to decadence video you know, that showcases how you can take profits from a business which is a riskier proposition, and you can move that into stocks which are less risky and still gain that financial freedom, that ultimate goal of getting all your time back and never having to worry about finances, to be able to travel, to be able to do whatever you want to do. But that comes with that mix and that balance, then leverage credit carefully for growth. You don't ever want to get over leveraged, but it's a valuable tool. You can Dave Ramsey and save and buy everything in cash, and when you're 75 years old, be pretty comfortable. Or you can use leverage right now, and in 10 years, get what you wanted to, you know, get your gain your goals and reach that target, and always learning and always asking questions and not being afraid to look stupid. I don't care what every single business that I've ever bought the first week, they think I'm an idiot, because I go into the business and I ask questions. I ask questions about every single step of the process, because I want to know. I don't care what they think about me. I don't care what their opinions are, because I need to know these things, and that comes from questions. So a lot of times you get weird looks like, why do you do this? What's this? What's this? I don't care, because it, you know, after a month, I know just about everything there is to know about that business, and then I can make educated decisions about where it needs to go, but it's uncomfortable to ask somebody a question. They look at you like you're an idiot, but you have to be okay with that discomfort. Yeah. So there you go. I will stop preaching and turn it over to everyone for questions.

Speaker 2  24:48
Hi guys. I was a little late today, sorry. And then at the end there, I didn't really catch the whole the whole lesson.

Unknown Speaker  24:59
That's cool. No, no worries. Does

Speaker 1  25:03
anyone have any questions about it? Like, kind of, what I'm I'm getting at, and can you see the difference, you know, like, and once you see the difference, you'll be able to spot it in your peers and your friends. That person that asks you, like, Why? Why are you, why are you thinking about buying real estate? I don't understand. You've got a good job, you know, you've got a good a good family, you own your own home, you know? Why would you take that kind of risk? Those are the people that are employees and they're going to be stuck in that mindset.

Unknown Speaker  25:45
It's not a bad thing. It's just a choice.

Speaker 3  25:53
Yeah, Shane, I I agree with that 100% I feel like I'm going through that right now, right? I left fortune 500 company, like, highest I can get paid well over, like, a lot, seven figure job, I was asked, no longer, you know, you don't need your services anymore, and I don't want to go back. But I bet you, every person I know is like, Well, why don't you just go right back into that job? And I, I would rather take the money and and do this. I'm never going to go back to that ever again. That was, that was brutally soul crushing.

Speaker 1  26:29
Yeah, I can't tell you how freeing it is to not have to rely on anyone else for your well being. That's a very, very liberating thought to know that, you know, no matter what happens, I'm good. And that comes, that's that doesn't come right away, but it comes with risk, and it comes with a lot of stress to get there. But there's nothing like that feeling. I totally get it. And you know, I've battled that, especially from family, like when I bought my first business, I remember my brother said, why you don't know anything about that? What makes you think you can run that business? That was, you know, he but it came from a place of concern. They were worried that I was getting in over my head, or I was taking too much risk, or whatever. Fast forward, years later, now he's coming to me and saying, Hey, you think this is a good business to buy? You know, like, how did you do this? How did you you know, it's a whole mind shift, but until you're exposed to it, you just don't know. And we're brainwashed, you know, growing up and, you know, in the public school system and whatever that, get a good education, get a good job, you're good

Unknown Speaker  27:50
but I think you should want more.

Speaker 2  27:55
I have a question, okay, um, what do you think about buying a manufacturing business now that Trump is putting 100% tariff on on goods that's coming out of the country,

Speaker 1  28:08
can we talk about that in the mentorship portion? Oh, yeah. Sorry. No problem, no problem. Does anybody have any questions about this specific topic?

Speaker 2  28:19
I didn't catch the full lesson, so I have to go back and rewatch it. That's cool.

Unknown Speaker  28:23
That's cool. That's why we record them.

Speaker 4  28:27
Okay, is there anything you know now that you wish you would have known transitioning from an employee to an owner?

Unknown Speaker  28:33
That's a great question. Um,

Speaker 1  28:49
probably that it's not easy, but it's worth it. Everybody sells this get rich quick kind of thing. They don't ever show you the dark side of things that come up. I don't care if it's real estate, whatever, like, yeah, I remember, like, one of the first properties I bought, and it was like, I think it was Thanksgiving Day, and I get a call and they had no hot water, right? And now I'm like, Okay, well, you know, you can't get a plumber out there. You can't do whatever it's Thanksgiving Day. So I went over there and I fixed the hot water right, and I missed Thanksgiving dinner. Those kind of things are going to come up in this life. And you either can, can be callous and not care about your employees, and I care about, you know, the people that rely on you or you can do the right thing, in my opinion, but it comes at at a sacrifice. There's no So, I guess it boils down to, there's no such thing as a fully passive investment, even if it's a stock, right? Because you still. Have to watch it. Nothing is fully passive. It requires a little bit of your time. So I think maybe I was a little naive at the beginning and thinking, Well, I can do this, this and this, and I'll get property managers, and I'll buy a business, and I'll put a GM in, and I never have to ever worry about it. That is not the full story. You have to watch things. You have to stay on top of things. So I would just, I would just say that probably the number one thing is that no investment is fully passive. Perfect. Thank you.

Speaker 5  30:43
They may have wishing so to think like an entrepreneur, we need to as a beginner. We need to buy like a bigger business, right? Because, since we are just starting it, we might think like buying a smaller it's going to be safer option, but you're not going to be able to scale higher employees, and then it's going to be like just another job, right? But if you're buying bigger, then you have more resources, right?

Speaker 1  31:15
Yeah, you know, is the juice worth the squeeze? Because if you, if you buy a business for that's a $50,000 business, as opposed to a $500,000 business, there's a certain amount of effort that you're going to have to devote to each one of those, so many hours a day for so many weeks to get it stabilized and ready. So would you rather spend the same amount of hours on a $50,000 business that's going to bring you potentially seven, $800 extra a month. Or would you rather spend that same amount of time invested in a larger business, $500,000 business, that's going to bring you $15,000 a month, right? It's about, you know, valuing your time and calculate a risk. You're risking way less on that $50,000 business. But what are you actually gaining from it? Very little really. Because an extra 600 bucks, 700 bucks a month, is not going to change anyone's life. It's going to help. Don't get me wrong, it's great, but it's not going to change your life like an extra 15 grand will.

Unknown Speaker  32:20
And it's the same amount of time involved, that's a great question. Thanks. Okay, do.
