Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is Shane and with the money Language Academy. And tonight, May 8, 2025 we're going to talk about financials, and we're going to go through some live financials and some p and l's and some tax returns, and just analyze those numbers, compare the numbers back and forth, and just just kind of go through what matters, what doesn't matter, what's an add back, what's not an add back, you know, kind of define some of the terms. It'll be an entry level discussion into just vetting those financials. And we're going to start with the easier one, which is the schedule C, so an LLC, but the where you find the numbers might be different for an S corp or a C Corp, but the analysis is the same and the terms are the same. So, but we're we're going to be looking mainly at a Schedule C on a on a 1040 so that, I think that would be the first place to start is when you get these financials, you know, you're asking for three years of P and L's, you're asking for three years of tax returns, and you're asking for a year to date at minimum those, if a broker or an owner doesn't want to give you any of those things, that's a red flag right there. They're trying to hide something so at least three years. But optimally, if you can get five, that's even better. But the only the reason I say three is because five years ago, it was covid, it was the pandemic, and everything's wonky right there. It's not really going to help you too much. And then in 2021 it was even more inflated because of all the PPP in the economy. And think businesses that should not have been solvent were solvent because of the extra money. So that's why I like to go from 2022 up to current. It just seems like it works better. 21 is a little better than 20, but 20 is a complete aberration in the history of the US. So you're not going to learn a lot from 2020 and as far as the when you get the tax returns, what you're going to get for a LLC is you're going to get their 1040 or at least they'll give you the Schedule C off their 1040 which is an attachment to the 1040 so it's considered an LLC sole proprietorship, which means that, you know, there's, there's one owner. They, you know, record those taxes on their 1040 but it's just an attachment to it. So it's technically an LLC, but in the tax document, it'll say sole proprietor. So don't let that throw you off now, an S corp and a C Corp. Well, a C Corp will record to, I think it's a 1021 an S corp will record still to the primary tax return, but the the numbers and themselves will be on a 1020 1c or 1020 1s but it's, it's kind of a weird thing. It's like it, they call it an informational return, but it still reports on the 1040 so you'll get all the numbers and all you know, all organized and everything on the 1021 so it gets a little complicated with that stuff. That's why I figured we'd start with the 1040 most of these businesses you're going to look at are likely LLCs, anyway, depending on what your Buy Box ranges. So figure that's a that's a good way to get started.

Unknown Speaker  03:20
So let's, uh, let's get this going. So

Unknown Speaker  03:28
that's what

Speaker 1  03:36
we're going to do tonight, is we're going to analyze financials, um, and there's a lot of numbers on these financials, and I think people tend to get overwhelmed, because I've seen it in real estate. It's called paralysis by analysis, right? You start looking at these numbers and you either don't understand them, you miscategorize them, or you sometimes people have such a an optimism and they want to buy something so badly that they'll overlook numbers that really don't work, and so you don't want to do you don't want to fall into any of those categories. So what you what you need to do is always know that the numbers speak for themselves. Don't add anything to them. Don't take anything away from them. Just know that they are what they are. So let's talk about the documents themselves. We always ask for the P and L statement. The P and L statements are the profit and loss that over a year for the business. They're going to show you know how much the revenue was, how much all the expenses were, and then at the end, they're going to say something like net income, seller, discretionary earnings, something like that. It's going to give you that what we have been labeling as cash flow. It's going to give you that final number, and that's your magic number, and the one that really matters. So you've looked at the listing at this point, and the listing says whatever the listing says. Yes, there's nobody on biz, buy, sell, or anywhere else that's looking at those listings and saying, Well, hey, this number is wrong. You can put anything you want to on those numbers, and maybe if enough people complain about it and say that you know it's fraudulent, maybe they'll take it down. But no, I've seen some just outright outrageous lying on the sites, but even worse, on like Facebook marketplace, sometimes it's people purposely doing it, and sometimes it's owners that simply have no idea what the difference between general revenue, cash flow, net income, gross income. They just don't know any any of those numbers. So they'll just say, well, we sold $500,000 in widgets this year, so we're just going to put $500,000 on it. They don't know any better. So just just know when you're getting into those listings, it's going to be even worse. So also with profit and loss statement, it can be it can be rosy. It can be pumped up and optimized to impress potential buyers, especially if this owner has been thinking about selling this business for a few years, what I've seen in a lot of the businesses that I've been looking at the last couple of years is that you can almost tell the moment when an owner is going to sell, because they'll switch on the so they'll go From showing losses to showing large profits. And you know, they won't, they won't have the expenses that they had before. They won't be buying equipment, things like that. Also, too, they'll start paying them if they own the building that they're that they're working out of, they'll start paying themselves rent, as opposed to just taking all of that as depreciation. So it's a wise move, because it makes it makes the business worth more. And it's actually easier for us if they pay themselves rent, because we're going to be paying that lease if we jump into there, if you're not going to get the real estate. So, but you can almost tell the moment when they decided that, you know, I'm done with this. I want to prepare it for selling. So, so, yeah, that P and L is an internal report. It shows revenue and expenses, and it's not always 100% accurate the tax return. On the other hand, when you got the you know, you've got the 1120 in case of S corps and C Corps, the 1065, is for traditional partnerships. But again, all the numbers are still the same. It's just a little bit it's organized a little bit differently for partnerships. And then the Schedule C is an attachment to the 1040 so if I'm a business owner and I have an LLC, it's a single member, I'm going to report that profit or loss on my schedule C, on my regular personal income tax form, on that 1040, so that's filed with the government under threat of perjury. You know, if you you know you're committing fraud if you lie on that document. So they're generally more liable and legally binding than a P and L. That's why the tax returns are your source of truth. You're always comparing your P and LS to your tax return, and if there's a discrepancy that you can't track down, always default to the tax return with the numbers that you use in your calculations, because it doesn't doesn't matter what they put in the P and Ls, and especially if it's an owner that does their own QuickBooks or something like that. It's not like a professional CPA. Professional CPAs generally are, you know, a lot better, obviously, because that's their profession. But they're, they're held to a higher standard of truth as well. So they're not going to fudge numbers just for the owner. You know, they're going to, they're going to stick to, you know, whatever's coming in and whatever's going out. So the first step is, you're going to compare the profit and loss statement that you get to the listing. You should be able to see where they got those numbers from, at least from the P and L so on that listing, you know, it's either going to show cash flow, it's going to show EBITDA, it's generally going to show gross revenue. So cash flow and SDE, which is seller, discretionary earnings, are essentially the same thing. Cash Flow can mean multiple different things when it comes to business, depending on on what you're looking at, but for our intents and purposes, seller, discretionary earnings is the same thing. It's like the ultimate profit at the end of the year that the owner takes home, that they can decide whatever they want to do with it. They can put it back into the business. They can use it for whatever. But it's the ultimate pure profit that that business produces at the end of the year. So, yeah, it's the business's true earning power for owner operator, and it's commonly used when valuing a small business, usually when you usually when you see EBITDA, it's a business, you know, that's one valued at $1 million or more. Then EBITDA is used, and that's the earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization. And the reason why EBITDA is used is because it's a good. Starting point, because you don't know. So if you're going into a business and you're trying to evaluate the business purely on what it earns, you don't care about the depreciation that the owner was was deducting from it, because they own the building. You don't care that somebody got a bad loan against it and they have a huge interest rate, or whatever you're trying to analyze the numbers purely from what the business is earning before all that stuff's taken out. Because all of that is variable, depending on the person, depending on the deal, depending on the interest rates. You know, there's so much that can that can come in and out of that. So that's why it's like a good starting point before all that stuff's taken out. Because, you know, you could go in there and you could have, you could buy the real estate as well, and it could be a terrible loan at 10 years. Or you could go in there, it's a 30 year loan. I mean, that drastically changes the number for, for, you know, profit at the end of the year. So, so that's why they just slice all of that stuff out, and then you get a pure, accurate depiction of what that company is actually producing. And gross revenue. Gross revenue is pretty straightforward. It's how much the business is making. So it's the total sales plus any other operating income before anything is really taken out of it. So that's just everything it's producing. So if they sell 1 million widgets, it's however much 1 million times the price of every widget that they sold is. So it makes, makes perfect sense. So you should be able to take the numbers from that P and L and compare it to the listing and see how you're getting started on the analysis. If you can't see where they got their numbers on that listing, be careful, because something is wrong. So sometimes they'll take the last three years and they'll average them together. You know, that might be one of the options, and that's where they got their numbers. Sometimes they're going to take the best year out of the last five. And again, be careful. If that's the case, then they're painting a picture that may or may not be better, then it should be, you know, ideally it should be last year. It should be the profit and loss statement from 2024. Is what that number should be at this point. But also, you know, you could look at the year to date and see if maybe they're using a projection based on what they're doing this year, but you should be able to discern what it is based on the profit and loss statements and the year to date. If it's wildly off, start asking questions, because you need to know where they got these numbers. And there's nothing wrong with saying, Hey, I'm looking at these, these profit and loss statements and comparing against the listing. And where did you get these numbers, especially if it's a broker, because the broker is the one that did that listing. So you go on there and you know, you call them back and say, hey, you know broker Bob would where did this EBITDA come from? Because this is wildly more than send the profit and loss statements and just see what they say. So they should have some sort of explanation for it. If they don't, it's a red flag. So let's talk about SDE versus EBITDA. So seller discretionary earnings versus EBITDA, and the purpose and why it makes a difference. So the purpose of SDS to measure the total benefit to the owner, which is, if you step in as the owner, that's going to be your benefit. That's what you're going to take home at the end of the year. The EBITDA is the operational profitability before any of the variable financing and depreciation, all that stuff is taken to it into account. It's usually the smaller businesses that use SDE the larger ones, especially if it's stuff that you know private equity is thinking about purchasing, if it's something is really large, if it's a franchise, they're all talking about EBITDA, that's the that's like, their favorite phrase. And as far as seller discretionary earnings, it includes the salary. So if an owner is taking a salary of 100,000 and the SDE is 200,000 then that means that 100,000 is part of that 200,000 but it's not part of the EBITDA. It's, it's, it's considered an expense and it's deducted from that EBITDA before it's actually posted. So all those discretionary expenses, like a personal car, meals, travel, all that stuff would get added back to the seller's discretionary earnings. Okay? And it's not because it's considered an expense in EBITDA. So those add backs don't work the same way with EBITDA as they do in SDE, and we're going to talk about that in depth a little bit later on. But as far as the interest taxes, depreciation, amortization, you know, it's. Added back, added back, true cash flow. But the whole, the whole thing, is the goal of what the number is telling you. The goal of the SDE is telling you what the owner is taking home every year. The goal of EBITDA is to be able to evaluate that performance based on the solid, concrete things that don't change when you step in. So the EBIT da, if you are operating that business, the way that the old operator was, should be similar when you step in, regard, you know, regardless of the terms of your loan, regardless if you own the real estate, all that stuff, those numbers should pretty much match. So it gives you an accurate gage of what to expect when you get there, the multiples can be a little bit different. Rest of the stuff doesn't really matter. Let's just keep going. So so now your next step is you're going to compare the profit and loss to the tax return. So this is where the rubber meets the road. We said the tax return is what really matters as far as the numbers go. So I put two examples here of what you might see for numbers. These are just, I just pulled them out of the blue. But you profit and loss. You might see, you know, revenue, gross revenue, of 500,000 cost of goods sold, which is cogs, that's how they always abbreviate it. At 150,000 gross profit, you know, is the difference of those two because they sold whatever that you subtract the cost of goods sold from that 500,000 you're left with 350 that's your gross profit. But then you have salaries, you have utilities that you had to pay, you had rent, you whatever you had, all this stuff that comes out of it, in your operating expenses, and you're left with a net profit, or basically an SDE of 75,000 so if you see that on the profit and loss, and then you go over to the tax return, you say, Whoa, wait A minute, they're only recording $45,000 then you have to figure out where that difference is. What is different between the P and L and the tax return, and you should be able to figure it out pretty quickly, hopefully. So in this case, the revenue is only 460 so then you have to ask yourself, Why would there be a discrepancy of $40,000 in the revenue, and sometimes that could be from cash transactions. Cash transactions, a lot of owners are not necessarily reporting that to the federal government, but they might be on their P and L's, especially if they're doing their own P and L's. So depending on how you look at that situation, for some people, that might be a bonus. You're like, okay, that's an additional 40,000 that you know that I could report or not report, or you looked at like, oh, no, that's how do I know that that's true? How do I know that they just didn't add $40,000 to the revenue just to pump up that number? Right? So you have to make that decision for yourself. You have to evaluate that situation. And again, it comes back to whatever you think the honesty of the owner is, whatever your risk tolerance, just what you're getting into this business. For me, personally, I don't care what the P and L says. This says 460 and that's the number that I'm going to go with, is 460 because everything else is looking very similar. You've got cost of goods sold is still 150 you know, your subtraction there is different. You got 310 on the gross profit because it's showing less revenue coming in. The total expenses are a little bit off, though. So why would the total expenses be off by $10,000 and it might be just because the owner is flat out inflating the expenses on the P and L to or on the that should say actually on the tax return, in order to pay less taxes. You know, because the name of the game for all business owners is to make as much money as possible and pay as little taxes as possible. It's, it's, I mean, why would it be anything else? You know, you're trying to make as much money as you can, and one of the biggest losses of your profit is going to the federal government. So, you know, they might just flat out be not reporting everything that they should, but just tracking it down the way we're talking about right here, makes a huge difference. You just need to know the why behind it. So when you see that $30,000 discrepancy, you need to be able to figure out why it is the way it is. And you know, you go back and talk to the owner. You talk to the accountants directly, and you say, Okay, why is this different? And you know, I talked about possibly some nefarious kind of actions here, but it might be simply that the owner is paying himself a $30,000 salary as well, so that $30,000 gets added back to the net. Profit, because it's still the owner take home. And those are called add backs. So we'll get to that here in a second. So what you have to do once you get the the tax returns is you recast it based on verified data, which is bank statements, pay stubs, to the owner, things like that, to where you can say, okay, that $30,000 where did that come from? Where did that go? And if the owner says, Okay, here's the bank statements to show this is how much it made. And I took $30,000 as my salary. And you can see on the 1040 at the top that that's part of their actual salary. Is that $30,000 so you're recasting, you're taking those add backs and putting them back into that, that $45,000 number. So right here at line 31 that net profit, you're saying 45,000 plus whatever the Add backs are. And add backs come in many forms. The the number one thing is the owner salary. But then you have some, sometimes you have, like, one time legal fees, if they got sued, or something like that, they might consult a marketing consultant to come in for and they pay that out of the profit. It's a one time thing. It's not going to recur, so it's not going to be when you take over the business. It's not going to be an expense for you. So it's considered an ad back then the owner might have a car cell phone, they might be, you know, taking people out to dinner all the time, doing all that kind of stuff, schmoozing, whether it's needed or not. Those are add backs, and then, of course, depreciation, interest, all that junk that we talked about in the EBITDA. But mainly what you're going to see is you're going to see is you're going to see the salary that's going to be number one, and then you're going to see those personal expenses. A lot of times, an owner has the business buying a personal vehicle for them that they drive back and forth to work. It's a tax deductible perk that many owners take advantage of. So that's that's a huge one. Cell phone is another big one. You know, they might have a tablet, a cell phone, they might have several people in their family on that same cell phone plan, cell phone plan, all that stuff. But again, there's a paper trail, there's a lease agreement, or, you know, some kind of a car note where you can see that payments happening. There's the cell phone plan, there's receipts for all the meals, like all that stuff, should be verified and given to you when you ask the accountant. So if they don't have proof of it, it doesn't exist. And so if they can't show any add backs, the number you're going to use is that 45,000 otherwise it's it's just fake. Okay, so again, always ask for three years of P and l's and tax returns. If they only want to give you one year of tax returns, red flag they should. They know. Every broker, every owner, knows that we're going to be doing this process. We're going to take those P and l's and we're going to compare them to the tax returns, and we're going to use that information to try to project what the business is going to be like, up for us for the first year. So, and with three years, you can kind of establish a trend. Somebody asked a question at the beginning of this saying they had a business that was trending down for the last five years. That can be a red flag, but, you know, maybe the business is trending up as well, you know, which is just an added bonus to, you know, maybe some depressed cash flow. Okay, so And beware of cash heavy businesses. So I once went and I looked at it. It was a, it was a drive through liquor and tobacco business, and he was showing really high cash flow on the listing. And when I went there and I saw the tax return, the tax return was showing losses. And I was like, Well, you know, you you're you said it's making like, 120 a year in cash flow. And he's, like, it is. And he pulled this wad of cash out of his pocket, and he said it's a cash business. He said, just because I have this in my pocket doesn't mean that it's getting reported. And I was like, well, that's not really what I'm doing. So I mean, I appreciate it, but this that's not for me, because for one thing, you're not going to be able to get a loan based on that, because the SBA, whatever lender you're going through is looking at the tax returns. They're going to glance at the P and L's, but the tax returns are what matters to them, just like to us. So something like that, like I don't even want to be involved in because you're taking an owner's word for it, and it's just not worth it. So and if those numbers don't line up, ask for the bank statements, ask for credit card statements, ask for terms on the lease of whatever car they have. Ask all that stuff, like during due diligence, especially, you can ask for every one of those things, and if, if they don't give them to you, that's reason for you to leave, like they should be providing you with all that information. But trying to hide something you don't want to be anywhere near that business anyway, and your CPA Reviewed financials are going to be much better, much more organized, much more truthful than something that the owner is doing with QuickBooks or QuickBooks Online or spreadsheets or whatever. However they're doing it, you know, the ones that the CPA are doing? Yeah, and anybody that's got a business that's making over 500 grand a year, they're going to have a CPA doing their I mean, it just doesn't make sense. Nobody can keep up with it. You would be losing money trying to do your taxes yourself at that point. All the Add backs must be verified. Never take the brokers word for it. Get proof. Remember it can't trust brokers ever. And I know brokers would take offense to that, but at the same time, in the back of their mind, they know it's true. Okay, so let's actually go ahead and look at some PNLs. I have some. Let's look at these. So I, what I did is I redacted these so you can't see, you know, where the where the business is, or what it is, or whatever, but you can kind of see this is like two years worth of P and L's in a comparison. So you can kind of see the numbers that this business was doing. Total Sales was the same thing as gross revenue. You know, it actually improved like 100 grand that year. You can see the total income, cost of goods sold, and the gross profit. Again, the gross profit is over 100,000 more from year to year, which is good. You're like, okay, that's trending up. That's what I want to see. And let's see, here we go, net operating income, right there. Okay, so the net operating income from year to year that the in 22 it was basically 60,000 in 23 it was 82,000 Okay, so let's go look at the tax returns to see if we can verify those numbers. Okay, so this is 23 so in 23 they said loosely, $80,000 in 23 so this is the schedule C, which is reported on their 1040 and you can see right here, right here is the big number that you're looking for. Now they're showing 33,000 right in in net income, 33,000 so you have to figure out, why is it that they put $80,000 down on the P and L. So one big one right here is depreciation, so you're not going to be owning that building, so that phantom expense of depreciation gets added right back on there. So that makes it, let's just call it 60,000 right there. So that's one big ad back. So if you go back through here and look, okay, advertising, no, that doesn't count insurance, you'll be paying insurance as well legal and professional fees. Maybe that could be considered if it's a one time fee, but if that's an ongoing keeping an attorney on retainer kind of thing, no office expenses, other business property that still goes on there, supplies, taxes, wages, other expenses. So it looks like none of those would necessarily count. So let's scroll down, looking for how they derived that. Okay, so here's what they're saying. How they got to that $80,000 mark. They're saying that the amortization so they had a loan on it too. So not only did they have the depreciation up here, which was an ad back of 27,000 but they also paid $20,000 in some sort of a loan they were paying back that you necessarily you wouldn't have that loan, right? You better not have that loan. So there you go, so that that gets you up to that $80,000 that they're claiming, or the 78,000 and they've done a really good job of breaking that down in this tax return, so you can see that. Okay, so let's go look at the the other one from 2022, that one was, I think it was 33,000 or so that it was saying was the profit for that year. So let's look. Okay, they're showing a negative 33,000 17,000 in amortization. So what's that? Put it at like negative 16,000 Okay, insurance. All this stuff is the same. We've shown that none of that stuff will be. Pulled off of there. So let's scroll down and see where they're getting that that number, that 60? Yeah, I guess it was 60,000 wasn't it? So again, amortization, so that that puts it up merchant account fees they're adding to it. So these would all be questions that you would have to ask, like, what is that and why is that not recurring? That's a big number, 17,000 so that could could make or break. You know, your your loan, your debt service, all that stuff, security. Security is probably they paid for cameras, they bought all that kind of stuff a one time fee. So, yeah, that's six grand that might come off there. But telephones, why would telephones be a part of that so? So again, there would be your question right there. Like, how did you get from negative 33 you know, we know the 17 and the 10 there, that's 27 but still puts it at negative 6000 so how'd you get from negative 6000 on this to 56,000? Where's that other 50 coming from? So that's a big question right there, because I don't see anything on here that justifies that cash flow. So there you go, and you have to ask these questions. It's awkward sometimes, but they're ready for it. They know and they should have an answer ready for it, because you need to know what those answers are, because this was, what was this?

Unknown Speaker  31:44
2022 No, that's 23

Speaker 1  31:50
Yeah, this was 2022 so it hasn't been all that long ago that they're showing a pretty big loss for that business. And I get it, if they had a bunch of equipment they bought, which that could be this too, this other business property that 60,000 that could very well be what they're saying. This was a one time purchase of some huge piece of equipment, or a big sign for advertising. I mean, that could be it too. And that's, that's an acceptable answer that makes sense to me, like, okay, they bought new equipment, they bought a vehicle, they bought whatever. You know, sometimes I think this was an auto repair shop. So sometimes that could be what the one of the most expensive things in auto repair shop is the equipment that does wheel alignments. Those that equipment is very expensive, so it could be something like that, but you need the answer to that now at the end of the day, if they provide you with a good enough answer to justify what's on those P and L statements, you're in pretty good shape to be able to evaluate that business and figure out if it's going to meet your criteria, if it's going to meet the 3x Rule, if it's going to pay down the debt, if it's going to be something that you can manage with the time that you have, that kind of stuff. But these numbers have to match, and if they don't match, and if they don't give you a reasonable approximation of where that money is going and why those numbers say what they say on the tax return walk, I mean plain and simple, like, there are other businesses out there. Like, don't take a huge risk just because you think there might be some upside. Like, you need to know all this stuff, all the money in, coming in, all the money going out, so you can accurately gage what your situation is going to be when you step in day one.

Unknown Speaker  33:48
What's up? Wally, got a question?

Speaker 2  33:53
Yeah, so I just had a question about the the liabilities part. So on the business that I was telling you about the on the on the piano. And one of the sections there are, there's like 50 or 60 grand of back payroll taxes, and there's like a huge $120,000 loan. But the the the owners earnings are still lined up with what is being shown on the tax returns. So is that? So it's an asset sale, so even if they were to, if I wasn't, to assume that liability, is that still a red flag

Unknown Speaker  34:33
because they have a loan they're paying off?

Speaker 2  34:36
Yeah, it's a it's a pretty big loan. There's back payroll taxes. There's like, a bunch of things in here that, I guess, show just, just cash and financial mismanagement.

Unknown Speaker  34:47
Is that, is that like a deal breaker? It

Speaker 1  34:50
wouldn't necessarily be a deal breaker, but you need to know what that debt is, what it was for, what the terms are. You know, one of the first questions you ask the broker is, is there any. Debt on the business or the owner. You know, whoever you're talking to, because you need to know. Because if you do a stock sale, you're assuming that debt, but with an asset sale, you're not going to assume that debt, but at the same time, like, what was it for? Is that money keeping the business afloat, and you don't know about it, is that for some sort of big piece equipment of equipment that you're not getting in the asset sale. Like, yeah, no, you need to know that stuff for sure. Okay, thank you. And back payroll taxes. Like, somebody that's been in business for 50 years should know how to handle payroll taxes.

Speaker 2  35:36
Yeah, no, this specific guy, it's been, I think he's this owner, has had it for 25 years, and he's had, he's had a couple things on the liabilities. Part of, I mean, he has loans from, I'm assuming it just is GPSB. I'm assuming that's a bank. And then he has, and then there's, like, personal names, and it says loan from, like, an actual personal name, and it's like 2030 grand. So there's a couple things on that, and I think it totals to around like, like 220

Unknown Speaker  36:11
grand. So I'm gonna have to ask about that.

Speaker 1  36:14
Well, I mean, if he's showing personal loans to him that he's infusing using, you know, capital injection, that that's a red flag, like I would be, I would be really worried about that, because a successful business owner that is running a business that's producing enough to pay for itself and do what it needs to do is not getting personal loans from friends and then putting that money in the business. That's, uh, that's pretty sketchy,

Unknown Speaker  36:44
yeah, okay, all right, thank you.

Speaker 1  36:47
I mean, no situations, I don't I'm at least gonna ask, though, like, Yeah,

Speaker 2  36:52
I'm gonna, I'm definitely gonna ask. But I think for somebody who's owned his business that long, I think he was just looking to cash out in as many ways as he can and just sell whatever's left off. I'm not sure. I might have to ask.

Speaker 3  37:08
I got a quick question, though. So I mean, I'm not taking into consideration the the years of the business, but don't most startup kind of like, form their business like I'm personally in that position right now where I'm starting out and every I mean, majority of the money in my business right now has been me pumping my cash into this business. So is that the time, the number of years that he has owned the business for, and the loan is still there. Is that the red flag, or the fact that he used this money at the beginning?

Speaker 1  37:50
Well, I mean, it's expected that you're going to infuse a lot of capital into a startup, you know, but at a certain point that business has become profitable and self sufficient. So the types of businesses that we're looking to purchase are self sufficient, profitable businesses. So in the case of the auto repair shop that Wally's talking about, this owner has been there. He's owned it for himself for 25 years. In 25 years time, if he's having to get personal loans to keep it afloat. That's a red flag. Now, just getting a loan for equipment, that's not necessarily a red flag. That's just because it might be a sound financial decision, because you get to write off all that debt. You get to do, you know, there's depends on what they do with the money, but getting personal loans, yeah, that that seems, that seems strange. You don't see that very often. I don't think I've ever seen somebody's personal name on a business as a as a loan for an established, you know, because this is supposed to be, you know, profiting 100,000 a year, right? Wally, so that seems a little wild.

Speaker 2  38:59
That makes sense. Thank you. Yeah. Also, Shane, what is retained earnings? Like on the P and L that I was looking at, said retained earnings negative, like 180 grand

Speaker 1  39:12
negative, 180 for retained earnings. So, I mean, retained earnings is usually what you're just keeping in order to build the business. So, like so, if an owner, so say, an owner you got, you're making 100,000 in SDE, you don't necessarily pull that. You could be putting that, leaving that, in place for working capital in the future, that would be considered a retained earning. So 180,000

Unknown Speaker  39:40
that seems, that seems

Speaker 2  39:42
pretty crazy. Yeah, it just at the bar. A lot of red flags, right there, be honest. Yeah, I know there's, there's one too many, now that I'm after what you talked about, and I give it another look over. I also, I use, I use chat GPT for it. Also, it helps a lot, especially the premium version. I literally. Just put the document to and I tell to list any red flags for me, and it listed all these, so I wanted to ask about them.

Speaker 1  40:07
Yeah, okay, so it analyzed it for you. That's super cool. Yeah, you

Speaker 2  40:10
can do that, yeah, after they send you the PDF file, like, you can just put it into it and it just, you can ask it, whatever.

Unknown Speaker  40:21
Okay, that's pretty helpful. Yeah, yeah, nice,

Speaker 1  40:28
yeah. So, I mean, generally, this is your this is kind of how the boring financial analysis goes. You know, you're pulling this stuff off of the tax return, you're comparing against the P and L's, and you're just trying to figure out if they've been lying to you essentially or just lying to the government. Because most, most owners are not reporting everything to the government, but they should be using legal loopholes, you know, depreciation, amortization, they should be using legal deductions to reduce their tax burden, not some kind of sketchy thing where they're paying people that don't exist or,

Unknown Speaker  41:08
you know, they they've got their

Speaker 1  41:11
son on the payroll, he never shows up, and they just pocket that money, like those kind of things. I'm not going to even consider buying a business if those things are happening, because if, if they're doing that no telling, and they're they're proud of it, and telling you that no telling what they're doing that you don't know about. So definitely, definitely worry about that stuff, right? You want to, you want to buy things from an an owner that has integrity for sure. Okay, does anybody have any other questions about that? I know it was kind of boring with numbers, numbers, numbers, okay, and just know that the, you know, if it's a Schedule C, excuse me, if it's a C Corp, if it's if it's an S corp, the financials will look a little bit different. Where you get the numbers is a little bit different, but they're still called the same thing. They're still called, you know, expenses, net expenses, other expenses, net profit, net income. That's all all the same kind of terms you're just pulling in from different spots, but the analysis is the same. Okay. What?
