Speaker 1  00:01
If you think you're going to invest in real estate and quit your w2 job, you're wrong. And here's why, anybody that's been in real estate for any amount of time knows that real estate is about long term wealth and it's about tax benefits. It's not about cash flow. Sure, there are a lot of gurus on this platform and others that will tell you that you get 1020, 30 doors and Section eight and all this stuff, and then you can make some real money and quit your job. For the average investor, that is not the case in this market with these interest rates, it is really tough to get a property that cash flows enough to where you can quit your w2 job you can live off those rents, because it's just not feasible. So the only properties right now that are cash flowing are ones that you have sourced off market, that maybe you have rehabbed on your own, you've done the burst strategy, all these things that I can teach you about when you if you join the lives and follow me, but the majority of properties right now, they don't cash flow a lot. You're not going to get rich, but what they are going to do is 1015, years from now, the tenants paying the mortgage for that entire time, the appreciation that comes with it, you're gonna gain wealth in the long term. So if you want cash flow, buy a business, and, better yet, buy a business and then use that profit to buy real estate. And 510, years from now, you're rich and you're not paying taxes. That's the beauty of real estate. It's not just about cash flow and Section eight and I've got 3040, doors and all that stuff. That's what I used to think. I used to think, well, if I get enough single family homes and I get enough duplexes and four plexes and six plexes, that at some point I'm going to quit my job and I'm going to live off these rents. And there are people that do that, but it's about 1% of all the real estate investors, the smart people, the people that really know how to do it, are buying businesses, and they're taking the profit from those businesses, putting it in real estate, getting the tax benefits, and then 15 years from now, they're living Hawaii. They're sitting on a beach someday because they made the right decisions now. So if you're interested in buying a business and using those proceeds to buy real estate that in 10 years from now has changed your life, has changed your family's life, then like and follow this video. Stay tuned for my lives. I will show you exactly how to do that.
