Speaker 1  00:02
Hello everyone. This is Shane with money Language Academy. It is a Thursday, October 16, 2025 we're going to start the mentorship portion. We just talked about how to pay yourself as a business owner, and lot of tax stuff. So I just want to open up the floor. If anybody has any questions, if you have a business that you want to have us look at, if you just want to give us an update as to you know what's been going on with your search, or your current businesses, or whatever this is. This is your time.

Speaker 2  00:39
Shane, I can I'll say something, okay, yeah, my searches Not, not been going well. There's not, not a lot of new businesses on biz by sale in my area, but, but I have been working more on my own business that I have, and had our first profitable month last month.

Speaker 1  00:57
Nice. That was great business.

Speaker 2  01:02
I mean, technically, it's been several years, but things were on hold for for a while, but it was just only last year, last December, when we got an SBA loan to really make things work and get a warehouse and everything, and really set up an operation.

Unknown Speaker  01:21
Yeah, you got to spend money to make money, right?

Speaker 1  01:26
So true, and it's scary, but it's true. But you know, I mean, even right now, like with everybody searching, even if you wanted, if you found a great business, you can't get an SBA loan because the government shut down, right? So it's like, we're kind of, we're kind of stuck right now. It's a little bit of limbo with everything crazy that's going on. So, you know, banks are still functioning. You can, you can always do that, and you can capital stack, you do those things, but you're not gonna be able to get an

Speaker 2  01:56
SBA loan right now. That's true. Yeah. Then we're definitely trying to keep expenses and everything low, so we can keep cash flowing, so we could possibly get, you know, capital extension, you know, soon, and, you know, really expand if we need to.

Unknown Speaker  02:10
What's the business? What is it?

Speaker 2  02:15
It's basically foam fabrication. So it's exterior molding for residential and commercial buildings. Okay, so a lot of stucco buildings have like exterior shapes, like sills and trim for Windows, things like that. It's, it's actually foam, but it's coated with a, like, a base coat, and they stuck over that.

Speaker 1  02:43
That's interesting, is that something that you you worked for a company doing that, and you went out on your own?

Speaker 2  02:52
No, I, a friend of mine, found assets for sale on Craigslist, like, four or five years ago, and I was like, What is this? Why would I interested in this business? But we looked into it, and it's like, this seems very doable and could be profitable, because it was basically selling not a business itself, but just kind of like assets to it, but came with a website, phone numbers and all that. So okay,

Unknown Speaker  03:20
I guess I don't give up. That's good. What

Speaker 1  03:34
about everybody else? How's it going? George,

Speaker 3  03:38
I know, yeah, kind of in the same boat as Aaron for the search. I know you said people who say the market just isn't there, probably haven't looked, but I've looked through like, every page of this buy, sell, every page of biz quest, like, I don't know it's maybe it's just my area, because, I mean, the ones that have good numbers, they look good on the listing. And then you inquire, you see the past years, you see the businesses going down, or there's questionable ad dogs, like, it's just all a waste of time, you know?

Speaker 1  04:14
Yeah, yeah. But this is, this is a crazy time, and with with things, with everything that's going on. So, I mean, there's so many red flags in the economy right now that even like so, okay, so OPEC, OPEC increased production of of oil like they ramped it up even more. So oil is going to, it's kind of going to tank which is going to bring things down like they're I think that it seems like they're punishing us for some of Trump's policies and the tariffs, right? That's going to hurt. They're just so many little things that keep adding out. The government shutdown like we can't, we can't seem to reach an agreement there. And, you know, all these workers that are furloughed, and often, it doesn't affect the bottom line of businesses so much. But the optics of the economy make people think it's bad, whether or not it's bad, you know. And it's come almost like a herd mentality, and that can be more damaging than bad numbers. But then, you know, the inflation numbers came out, and the inflation numbers were were worse than expected. So it's not expected that interest rates will be lowered the next time or the time after that, even though that was the original plan. So we'll see what happens there. But a lot of these things just spook people. So, you know, maybe someone who was thinking about selling might not be wanting to sell now, or they're, they're afraid to, you know, to finally retire. They have this steady income coming in. And it is, it is kind of an unprecedented time we had, we had under the last administration. It was so easy to get owner financing and down payments, fine, you know, finance partially from the business owner. And it was like so many things, the money was just flowing. And it's just not like that now. So it makes it more difficult to find the deals and right now. So if I was looking for my first deal right now, I'd probably be door knocking more than I would be this by so that's

Speaker 3  06:29
what I was thinking. Maybe just going to, like businesses in my area that, like, I've grown up going to and, you know, asking, like, a talk to the owner or something,

Speaker 1  06:37
yeah, just, just ask about the business itself. Like, hey, you know, I came here when I was a kid. How long has this business been here? You know, what's the story? And you be, business owners will talk about their business. They're proud of it, you know, it's been their whole life. But yeah, that that might be the way to go. And I know somebody posted in the in the community, a question about owner financing, and like a broker or somebody told her, the owner financing Can, can be a bad deal. It absolutely can be a bad deal. It can be a bad business too. When you when you find a business owner that is really, really willing to owner finance, and that business has been on the market for a long time, and nobody's wanted it. Even though it's owner finance, there's probably something wrong with it, whether it's bad books or they want unreasonable terms or whatever. And those Facebook groups where it's owner financing businesses for sale. That's where, you know everybody the owners go on there to try to sell them. You just have to be careful. You have to be extra careful. And a lot of owners think that their business is worth more than it actually is. They think, well, I put this much into it, it's got to be worth this. And that's just not the reality. That doesn't mean they're all bad deals, but just have to be extra cautious and keep yourself safe. Because it takes a sophisticated owner to be willing to do owner financing. Because most owners, if they just have the one business, and they haven't been, you know, doing this stuff and going, you know, buying and selling businesses, they think that someone who comes and ask them for owner financing. They're asking because they can't afford the business, so it spooks them a lot of times. And on the flip side, if, if they're just so willing to give anyone owner financing, is because they're scared and they want out. They just want someone else to be on the hook for it. So you have to find that sweet spot in the middle of an owner that understands it and wants to owner finance simply because they want to reduce taxes, because they don't want to pay a huge sum of taxes this year. They want to spread it out over years. Those are the ones that you have to find and and it's, it's, can sometimes be a needle in the haystack, but they're out there. They might not even know that they necessarily are ready to sell until they you know, a lot of owners want to sell. They just don't know how to do it, and they're afraid they're going to sell it for too little and or someone's going to come in and tank their business that they work so hard to build, and all their employees are going to be out on the street. And, you know, you have to overcome those hurdles, but they're out there. Yeah, I would. I would just start in my local area and just think, Okay, this ice cream shop has been on the corner for 25 years more, and it doesn't look much different than it did when I was a kid. It's a little modernized. It's got a new sign or whatever, but pretty much the same. Go talk to them. What can it hurt?

Speaker 3  09:46
What I've started doing is, normally, when I search I'll like, sort by the cash flow. But normally people that are listing it themselves, they don't know all the numbers, like some of them, just leave it out. So I've started, like, inquiring to a lot of the. That are listed by just individuals, and maybe don't have the number posted, and maybe I'll find a gem there.

Speaker 1  10:07
Yeah, you can reach out and see what the cash flow is like. So the last auto repair shop, it had nothing. The last one I bought, it had no numbers other than the asking price. It didn't have the cash flow, it didn't have an address, it didn't have a picture, it didn't have anything. And I inquired, and then I got all the information later. But I could have easily just discounted that, like, Oh no, cash flow. Or if I had my search set to where it was, you know, included the cash flow, I would have never seen it. You know, don't, you know, cast a wide net. Be selective when you find one, but when you're looking cast a wide net.

Speaker 3  10:46
Yeah, definitely. What do you think about either like a roofing company or kind of like a painting company, like residential painting?

Speaker 1  10:56
I like both of those companies a lot, both of those types, but every time I look at a roofing company, the owner is heavily involved. I haven't I've yet to find one that's really absentee or potential absentee, because they tend to be there every day, all day on the job. You know how? You know the employees are get all their orders directly from them. They don't have different crews and Foreman and stuff like that. That's my that's my only issue with those. And painting company painting is great because the margins are really high, but the same, same thing. Every time I look at one, it's an owner that's been doing it forever, and they're doing 60% of the painting themselves. Got you? Yeah, I don't know why. It just doesn't, they don't scale and they don't, they don't let go. I don't know if it's perfectionism or what in that industry, but it's they're hard to find.

Speaker 3  11:58
Yeah, my only concern with those types of companies is, just like when I've inquired and gotten books from them, it's like a lot of big orders. It's not like a bunch of small so I'm just worried if I were to acquire one, you know, what, if I don't know, like, maybe people next year don't need painting for a new apartment complex or something. I mean, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  12:25
I mean, so concentration of customers is always an issue. If they're if it's highly concentrated, where you just have a few big clients, that's that's scary, because maybe they only had the big clients because the owner had a personal relationship with that company or that other owner, and you'll lose that, lose out on that. So it's, it's definitely a concern, but the industry itself, even if the economy tanks, there's still going to be landlords out there that need, you know, their places painted and this and, like roofing, even more so, because a storm happens and insurance pays. It's not, you know, regular people out of pocket. So, yeah, you know, trees fall, you know, things start leaking, whatever, like you it's recession resistant, but, but yeah. And then if they have so, it's so, if they have a concentration of customers, that is, it's pretty high, like, just like you might have five, six customers that are the bulk of that cash flow, then see if they have contracts with them. If they do have contracts with them, are those contracts transferable? You know, you might not lose out on it automatically, but you it's still worth inquiring to see what's up with that. And you know, you might be able to put a stipulation in the contract that I'm not going to buy this business unless I get a contract with these big players. Like they continue, they they they re up with me, or whatever. Like you can, you can get creative with your purchase agreements. And if, if they're scared, and they say, Oh no, I don't want you talking to them or whatever. All right, screw you. I'll go go to the next one.

Unknown Speaker  14:11
You know, always make a good deal for yourself,

Speaker 1  14:16
and it can be good for both parties. But you know, you just don't want them to leave, and then everybody, all the customers are gone, and then you're stuck with a big loan and no customers.

Speaker 3  14:28
Yeah, so last week, I kind of told you about, like, the business I was already under contract, so I talked to the broker. I ended up not setting a meeting, because if it's under contract, they're probably gonna sell. I mean, there's no point in meeting and, you know, yeah, but she told me that with their brokerage, they normally, they don't do Lois. They just go straight to APA, which is as a purchase agreement. Is that standard? I was under the impression you do like LOI? I and then you do the APA.

Speaker 1  15:04
Well, that's how I do it. That doesn't mean that that's how everybody, everybody has their own thing. There's no like. It's not like when you buy real estate, where there's only one way to do it. You know, you own our contract through an agent and whatever. There's a lot of different ways to do it. Some people, the the LOI is so detailed that it may as well be purchase agreement. There's just a lot of ways to get you to that. But I don't like going directly to the idea of going directly to a purchase agreement, because it's binding. You're signing something that that means that at the end of this that you have to, you know you have to bring funds, unless you have, you know you're going to have your stipulations in there, your contingencies, that this needs to be true. This needs to be true. This needs to be true, whatever otherwise the the contract is going to be void. So when you get to the end of that purchase agreement, and you don't want to buy that business, then it better be because of one of those contingencies not being true. So you that's, that's how you have to, that's how you get out of it. Just like when you buy a house, it you have a contingency in there of the you know, it needs to pass inspection, right? Or you need to be able to get the funding from a bank in order to do it. So if the bank says, Oh no, we're not going to give you this loan, we found that you had a bankruptcy or whatever, you know what I mean, whatever the funding falls through, you're not you still don't have to pay for that. So you just need to make sure that your contingencies in there are are structured in a way that if you find anything that's during your due diligence that would make you not want to buy that business, that it falls under those contingencies, and you can get out, whereas an LOI, it doesn't matter you can, you can, you don't have to have any of that stuff in there. You just be like, Well, I don't like it anymore. I'm not going to do it. So I understand why they do it. They're probably, you know, they're sellers, broker, you know, they they're, you're doing it for the sellers. They're not going on the other side. So they're trying to get a good deal and bring somebody to the negotiation table that's serious, and I get that, but you know, you would definitely want a lawyer to look over that APA before you signed it, make sure. And you know, you would want to ask them all those questions. But if it's a good business, and the APA is fair, and an attorney looks at it, and he's like, Yeah, this is cool,

Unknown Speaker  17:35
I would still consider it. I just, it's just not ideal.

Speaker 3  17:40
Got you Yeah? I just, I don't know. I mean, the story, does it make sense? Like they again, they didn't have the year to date financials. They didn't have previous years, though, just to go straight to APA kind of,

Speaker 1  17:52
yeah, I wouldn't do that without seeing the financials at all that. Yeah? 2024 Yeah, no, I wouldn't do that. No way. I mean, I would sign an NDA, and then you give me the financials, and then, if the financials look, look good, then, then possibly, but if they're not going to give you the financials too, no way, yeah.

Speaker 3  18:16
I mean, that's why I was maybe the seller or the buyer doesn't know what they're doing, and maybe the deal will fall through. I got lucky enough, maybe,

Unknown Speaker  18:29
yeah, that's pretty odd.

Unknown Speaker  18:32
I know, right? Like,

Speaker 1  18:33
that's like buying a house without seeing it, without ever stepping foot inside. People do it sometimes, but doesn't make any sense. It's it's very risky. Maybe

Speaker 3  18:45
she'll call me back, and it'll probably be like a fake buyer or something. I still don't know. I mean, that just seems really crazy to me.

Unknown Speaker  18:54
Yeah, could be an institutional buyer too,

Unknown Speaker  19:00
you know, a private, yeah, maybe something like that.

Unknown Speaker  19:12
Anybody else got any questions? This

Speaker 1  19:18
was a good night. You guys had good questions. I think we cover a lot of ground. It's cool.

Unknown Speaker  19:24
Okay, let me shut this off.
