Speaker 1  00:00
Hey, everybody. This is Shane with money, Language Academy. It's Thursday, November 6, and we're going to the mentorship portion of the evening see if anybody has any questions. I know patience. Are you around? I think you had a business you wanted us to look at, right? A salon,

Unknown Speaker  00:19
nail salon, or a beauty supply company? I think

Speaker 1  00:26
no. Well, if anybody has any questions, she might have stepped away. I know Laura put a question about attorney fees she was having some difficulty finding an attorney that wasn't really expensive, and it is hard. It's really hard to find an attorney that's not crazy expensive. They they generally charge 300 bucks an hour. That's pretty standard to do contract work, and that's why, you know, I only want like, I've been doing it long enough that I use the same like template purchase agreement and loi, because it's already an attorney's already looked at it, so I can just kind of plug the different things in there and then give it to them. So they're just, they're advising on a contract, rather than writing one from scratch. So if you can do that, that that helps, if you'd like I can, I can give you, I can put a kind of a cookie cutter purchase agreement that I've used before. I'll just take the specifics out, and that might give you a start. You can also just ask chat GPT to do it, and then give it to an attorney. But they're going to charge 300 bucks an hour. You're going to expect to pay about $2,500

Unknown Speaker  01:41
to have them look at that stuff.

Speaker 1  01:45
It's It's not cheap, but I don't know. I guess that's why they went to school for a long time. So they can charge us whatever they want. But it's definitely worth it to keep yourself safe. It can save your bacon.

Speaker 2  02:00
Hi, Shane, I was here. I was answering, but my my connection was somehow like I was looking at my buttons. Yes, I did get back

Unknown Speaker  02:14
the NASA loan back

Speaker 2  02:17
looking, and it's looking really exciting.

Speaker 1  02:24
You posted it. I'll share my screen. Check it out. Okay, so it's a general nail salon. Oh, wow. So they want 180 and the cash flow is 145 that's really good. It's been around for

Unknown Speaker  02:47
20 years or so, pretty close.

Speaker 2  02:50
You actually did this in the class about, I think, four sections ago, or something like that. And it was a good one. And I think what they told me was the the person who was planning to buy it had a sudden death in the family. It was like two people coming together to buy it, okay? And one of the partner, the parent, died or something, somebody died. Okay, pull back and,

Speaker 1  03:25
well, I mean, not to be, not to be morbid, or whatever, but those are the situations that we're looking for. I mean, they need out of the deal they want to sell. You're looking for a good deal. It's just that's, that's life, you know, no, you never want to wish that on somebody, but those things just happen. So, yeah, yeah, you know, it's like the the D's in in real estate, you know, death, disrepair and divorce, the three D's, same thing holds true in business. So, okay, so it says absent. Have you? Have you been to this business yet? Have you seen any financials?

Speaker 2  04:07
They did upfront? Didn't pull me through any loop to even get the financials soon as I got through to the broker, he he had some upfront, the one from January up to date, um, and then the one of 2024 he had those up front. So do the numbers match? Um, yes, the numbers are matching, and they're looking great. The only thing I don't have right now is I don't have the three years. You know how, like you told us to get three years. I don't have the two years, and I don't have the IRS on,

Unknown Speaker  04:49
yeah, you need the tax returns for sure. I don't have

Speaker 2  04:52
the tax return. So he is hesitant on that. He wants to. He wants to make sure that my banker is willing to finance like they don't want to waste their time, but at the same time them being very confident that, hey, you know what you got to make sure that you have the money or we don't want to waste our time. And also the owner of the building for the renting of the space. They said, Okay, you have to go through that person too, but they are confident that, okay, if you're not ready, we'll wait for you to hear back from your banker. But if not, we want to move on. So he did say, I need to, I don't need an ally, but there is, like an agreement he will want me to sign, or rather have a down payment, but there will be a clause there. He told me of that there will be a clause there, stating, if anything, don't go through the rent, you could not secure the rent due to maybe your tax credit, because the owner was strict about tax I mean, not tax credit, your your credit score being at a certain you know. Point is that if none of that works, and if your bank did not give you the money, we're giving you your money 100% back. So they're pretty confident about like the place, and they're not ready to waste their time, but they seem pretty nice. I think my only I know I need to go back to some of your classes. My only thing, though, is it is not 100% an absentee business.

Speaker 1  06:45
Yeah, I see that. So it says, I was looking right here. It says the net income, I guess if you work, there is 145 or you could hire someone for 45,000 a year, probably to run that. What that is, I assume, I

Speaker 2  06:59
believe that's what it is. Yeah, because the lady that I met there, I actually snuck up on the guy. I went there in the morning. I had other point engagement, so I came there just to, you know, have a feel for the place in disguise, you know, and they appear to be nice and but I didn't have the luxury of time, because I had to travel down there for about 30 minutes. So I didn't have the time to really, like, get my nails done and stuff down, or to get a feel for the for the location. But however, when I came back in the evening, it was at eight, 7pm in the evening. It was already dark. You know, with the current lighting situation, it's it's a funny Street, more that it's so busy bubbling like usually most street malls, and most malls are like dead souls now, given the Amazon and all of this e commerce thing going on, but this place is just bubbling with life. It's like, it's like, okay, the whole neighborhood start tripping out at about 7pm everybody's just out and shopping and doing stuff. Like, it's a little bit of a rich neighborhood in Shane walk. So it looks everything is looking promising. I just haven't gotten a hold of the tax return. I believe that's the real D. You know that's what's gonna connect everything like you

Speaker 1  08:32
really look out for. I mean, so you got the profit and loss statement, so you were able to match those to these numbers. That's good. Now you want the tax returns to be able to match the tax returns to your profit and loss to make sure that there's nothing missing, that they're actually the numbers that are on that P and L are legit. Now, when you do your your figures, and you plug it into the calculator, because of the 100,000 you know you won't be there all the time. So use 100,000 as your your your cash flow. Don't use this 145 because you're gonna have to pay someone realistically to come in there. And it's because right here, it says the business produces close to 100,000 in annual profit, even under absentee ownership. So that sounds like they did an add back of the GM salary right there to get that 145 that's, that's my guess so. So just to use that number, that 100,000 which still makes it a good deal, still, still a great deal at 100,000 profit. So just, just remember that,

Speaker 2  09:36
alright, and I believe the last negotiation they had with a prior buyer. I think the person had negotiated, I think 165

Unknown Speaker  09:49
because the broker did a mention of 165

Speaker 2  09:53
so when I showed up, he was like, one eight. I said, Wait, I thought I heard you mention 165 Why are you? Went back to 180 so that's a potential for for it to be 165 however, I think I need to really take a look at how things will play out. She said she hasn't mentioned to the workers that she's selling. However, when things get serious, she will have to, like, let them know. My only worry would be, like, Okay, I don't have experience in nails or anything. She works there, but I just have to, like,

Unknown Speaker  10:36
walk my way to

Speaker 2  10:40
the whole adaptation to my first purchase, or something

Unknown Speaker  10:46
that I have no

Speaker 1  10:48
doubt about that manager, like, what's going on there is that, is that a long term situation? Are they working? Is the manager working full time? Like, just, you know, you want to make sure that there's already one in place, or someone who can do it if you're not going to be able to devote the time to it, because it keeps saying absentee. You know, potential for absentee. But then down here it says proven absentee. So I don't know

Speaker 2  11:20
the seller, what I realized was the seller, the seller, or the broker, is really seasoned broker. He's been doing this for ages, for decades, I mean, so he knows the terms that sells, so he put those things in place. Because when I was when I showed up in the morning, the lady I was talking to, I thought she was the secretary or something, who, when I came back in the evening to meet the seller, she turned out to be the person who was the owner of the place. I said, okay, and she was like, your face looks familiar. I said, Well, yeah, whatever, you know, I let her on. Okay, I was here this morning, actually. So the thing is, she works there, and that was her, she had training in, you know, nails, esthetics and everything. And then she purchased this business or something. She didn't start this from scratch, but she has been owning the place for over seven years, going 10 years, and she just told me up front that, you know, if you are not gonna be like, be here all the time, or be the one to really be part of the business, then you gotta make sure you are nice to the employees, like it's up to you if you want to keep them, or if you want to fire them, you want to let them go, I definitely want them on and she said, yeah, it nice if you can, because some of them, they live, like, 10 minutes away, and they are. They've been here for some years. They really love, yeah, they have some really loyal customers. Um, so, yeah, so the name, the name on the document, they're doing a DBA as French nails. So, yeah, I'm just like hoping tomorrow I'm supposed to meet with my bank. I send her the documents that they send.

Speaker 1  13:31
They're they're going to also need the tax returns. You know, the bank's definitely going to want to see the tax returns.

Speaker 2  13:38
Oh, yes, so I did tell the broker that they need the tax returns, but he wants us to he wants a verbal, yeah, that's a possibility. You can get a loan for for the business before he releases that. He wants, kind of like a down payment, or rather, what is it called? Earnest money? Earnest money? There you go. Could I forget that I almost lost that for private property I was trying to buy. They need some earnest deposits with a clause that they will refund everything if nothing falls throughout my end, then they want the agreement in a letter of intent, loi, and they just want to sign before they release that. So, so far, everything is looking good, but at the same time, I'm fingers crossed and

Speaker 1  14:45
Well, be careful, because if they're not wanting to release those tax returns, that seems a little sketchy. It seems to me like they gave you the P and L, so you already have the numbers. So why wouldn't they want you to see the tax returns? Unless those numbers aren't the same as. It. So I would not be very keen on putting earnest money in. And if there's any kind of a risk on that earnest money whatsoever, it before you see that tax return, and this is something, just talk to your banker about it, because they, you know, if they're a commercial banker, they deal with loans all the time. They deal with the whole process of buying and selling businesses. And they can tell you too, you know, if that's out of the ordinary for that area, but to me, that's out of the ordinary anytime that they just don't if they want your money before they're going to give you the information on the business, it's a red flag. I mean, at least the basic stuff, you know, p and Ls and tax returns, that's standard stuff across the board. I get it, you know, they might not want you to visit the business, they might not want you to look at bank statements and that kind of stuff, sure, but P and Ls and tax returns, that's standard. I

Unknown Speaker  16:03
Yeah, they gave me the balance sheets,

Speaker 1  16:09
I believe, for signing on disclosure.

Speaker 2  16:12
No, that's, that's the way. It was a little funny, because I remember the other guy passed me through a lot to just to release this. But what these guys did was they gave me 2024 and they January up till date of 2025 okay, but then the tax return is being withheld. And then I noticed, like when I was talking to the lady, I said, oh, so, oh, you're the owner. So, okay, I was looking at her. She look healthier than healthy. And I said, nurse, I could pick, I could pick on like we trained to assess people, like we just do it without even noticing that we're doing it. Like, if I walk past you, I could say, okay, this person is in what percent of health, or are they dealing with something health wise? From whatever training we have, we can tell. So I looked at her, she was looking real healthy, and I'm like, okay, yeah. So you, you did, did it say you're selling because you have health issue? And she was beginning to fumble a little bit like, yeah, yes, personal family. And then the broker just cut in, of course, is, you know, the same, you know,

Unknown Speaker  17:38
tribe or nationality or something,

Speaker 2  17:41
he kind of, you know, jumped in and covered that up. And she's like, Yeah, personal, private things. Said, Okay, that's fine, makes sense. Not going to come to your private stuff,

Unknown Speaker  17:53
yeah, be careful on this one.

Speaker 2  17:55
Okay, yeah, I really wish I was able to drop the documents for you. I was busy on the end what the document they sent to me was Dropbox. Dropbox has seen a little bit outdated, like, who does share things with Dropbox lately? So it was a little difficult for me to share it, even with the banker, like when I send it to her, her bank, the bank doesn't allow her to open those documents. So how to, like, figure a way to open it myself and then upload it and send to her. So I didn't have time to print it. I was gonna print it and just, you know, blanket information, like the title, and bring it to class, but I didn't have to number four

Unknown Speaker  18:41
class. Gotcha?

Speaker 1  18:44
Okay, yeah. I mean, if the numbers pan out, it looks like a really good deal. But I think, I think at the end of the day, I would not give them any money until they gave me the tax returns if they really want to sell it. You know, especially if you go back to them, and your banker is going to give you, you know, proof of lending, basically like you can, you can bring, you can bring the the proper down payment. You can get the loan. You could actually buy this business. Then there's no reason why they shouldn't release the tax returns to you without earnest money. And you can say, I just want to. All I'm wanting to do is verify that the numbers on the P and L are matching to the tax returns. And then, if that's the case, then we can move forward. We can do earnest money. We can do everything, but until then, I'm not going to do it. And if that's a deal breaker for them, then you know, those numbers are not the same. I

Speaker 2  19:44
hmm, yeah, the broker look very seasoned. He looks honest, though, but you know, just those little, little clues here and there, we'll see. I'm not.

Unknown Speaker  19:57
You know who else looks honest a liar?

Speaker 1  20:00
But you can't tell usually. I mean, that's why we get the documents. You can't trust anybody in this, because you just never know You. You. That's why, especially the tax returns, because no one's going to over inflate cash flow and profit on a tax return, because nobody wants to pay more taxes. Yeah.

Speaker 2  20:20
I mean, that's, that's the way it looks a little bit fishy right now, because, I mean, nobody really just dropped any of this stuff up front. So, from from what I'm saying, because the broker is very seasoned, like I asked, Hey, so how long have you been doing this? It's like, oh, and the lady kind of knew him personally, and she's like, Oh, he's been doing this for ever. We can't even remember, many years. I said, okay, so it looks like he upfront. He knows which word to use the head issues like those little little, you know, nice stories together, and the business is looking I mean, from what I saw in the morning, the place wasn't just rushing, but I was there before they opened, and I had to leave right away, so I can't really charge, but he it looked like the numbers are looking too good to be true, though. I mean,

Speaker 1  21:24
yeah, I mean, I would, I would move forward and just, you know, keep, keep vetting the numbers. But like I said, you know, just, you want those tax returns. And to me, that would be my line in the sand.

Unknown Speaker  21:35
Okay, so quick question,

Speaker 2  21:39
Will it be okay if there's a clause in the LOI and the agreement that says your money will be returned 100% I mean, would that be a grant for me to be able to drop an earnest or no or even with those clothes, I could lose it, because I don't mean another earnest Money fight. I fought for six months to get the one for my private home deck when things didn't fall through. And, I

Speaker 1  22:08
mean, it just depends on what it says. I don't know, you know, put a clause in there, but under what contingencies? So it just depends on how it's written. Okay. Oh, again, you want someone to look at it that knows enough about this to know whether your money's safe or not.

Speaker 2  22:26
Oh, yeah, I will involve my lawyer. Okay, yeah, I will involve Shane. I think the last question I have to ask though, is I I left my job like you are with I left my job and my business. Unfortunately, the plans that I had going into the business, I did not land on that lily pad. So I'm on a journey that the business is not really yielding to take care of yourself. So I have been like, surviving on my little saving or whatever I had on the side prior. I'm purchasing this business right now. At this point, will requesting with the bank request me to have, like, a stable paycheck coming in, or will that be a factor? Because I'm beginning to look into grabbing a job right away, to have that paycheck coming

Speaker 1  23:37
it'll be a factor, because they want to see that you have, like, if things don't work out as you think they will in the business we because every business has lean months, you know, to where maybe you're not making money, maybe your cash flow negative for a month or two out of the year. You know, the months like January, where, especially in Chicago, where the weather's really bad, people are less likely to go get their nails done because they just don't want to get out. I mean, things happen, right? So, yeah, it's going to make it a challenge to get funding from a traditional bank if you don't have active income, okay, unless you bring a larger down payment, that's that's how they overcome that. You know,

Speaker 2  24:16
they larger like to what percent, 20 to 30%

Unknown Speaker  24:21
then that will be, let me see, that'd

Unknown Speaker  24:25
be like 20% it'd be 36,000

Speaker 2  24:28
36,000 I have something close to that, but we'll see. Okay.

Speaker 1  24:34
I mean, it's just worth a shot. Just just talk to them and see what they say. They might be okay with it, because if these numbers are right, that the bank knows it's a great deal. Okay, okay,

Unknown Speaker  24:47
you got that in your favor,

Unknown Speaker  24:49
and I have a person, are you,

Unknown Speaker  24:51
so you're not planning on using SBA? Are you?

Speaker 2  24:55
Um, she wants to still take it through the SBA. So. I have like this. I think the last deal that didn't fall through, what it did for me was I developed this really close friendship with this banker who I remember the last time she was going on vacation, she called her patient and say, haven't heard from you know what? I just wanted to touch base and make sure everything is okay. She genuinely care about, about, she's, she's his panic, and she genuinely care about, like, just minority and small, you know, businesses and wanting to really support, she just a great person. So I developed this close relationship, so I wasn't sure if it was okay for me to, like, come down so like, I mean, if the paycheck, if she don't see the paycheck from a regular business, she will know that I don't have a regular monthly paycheck, my business is going but is it's not where the prediction or the analysis, the forecast I made before I went in, is not what I'm getting because of the third party that I'm getting clients from. So it's not working out financially the way I wanted to, because with the middleman being there, they are getting a back of the cuts from us, so we're not getting the money the way it should be, right?

Speaker 1  26:21
Well, the reason I was asking about the SBA is just because it shut down right now. So even if

Unknown Speaker  26:26
you that's true, so

Unknown Speaker  26:29
go through the SBA to

Speaker 1  26:32
really soon you wouldn't be able to do it. So it's you have to wait till the government reopens to get an SBA loan.

Speaker 2  26:38
But if this business is set like really promising. Do you think the bank will want to show that it or they will still want the SBA?

Speaker 1  26:47
They might. They might, especially because it's a, it's not a huge business. It's it's pretty small. It's okay to them, so it's possible. I mean, just, just go talk to her and see what she says. Okay, yeah, can't hurt to talk to somebody, right?

Speaker 2  27:03
Okay, but on the side, you know, just being on the safe side. You know, nursing is quick to scoop. I was already like, knocking on the door some of my prior employers and say, hey, I want something, and I want something real quick. So thinking, will it be a problem? If she knows that I don't have a stable monthly cash coming in,

Unknown Speaker  27:30
it'll be an obstacle for sure.

Speaker 2  27:33
Okay, thanks, Shane, I already put in applications. I'm just waiting. Okay, all right, thanks.

Unknown Speaker  27:41
No problem. Well,

Unknown Speaker  27:46
what's up? Everybody? Anybody else have a question?

Unknown Speaker  27:56
I'll go. I'll wait. No, go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  28:00
No, it's better. I'll wait

Speaker 3  28:01
Fair enough. Okay, deal. Thank you. Hey, so lots of questions coming in. Hey, so Shane, so can you please remind me what your recommendations were for I know we talked about credit card stacking and then, but we want our personal credit line of limit or credit line to be like, high or whatever. So I mean, what if I got a credit card that's like 2300 right now, I don't know. My got a good one or two here and there, not too much. Maybe, if I'm lucky, it's around 4000 maybe 3500 how do we increase our personal line of credit? Thinking, ahead of time before we go ahead and do the business credit like you said. So do we just keep asking for more credit cards or, well, no,

Speaker 1  28:51
I mean, you want to be careful, because you don't want to get a bunch of hard inquiries or more credit cards. But so what you're what you want is you want at least one credit card from a national bank that has over 5000 in a limp in your credit limit. That's your goal. It helped because that your that gives you a good personal credit profile for capital stacking. So your current credit cards? Do you know Are any of them national banks? What are they currently? You have a chase card.

Speaker 3  29:25
I don't have a chase card yet, so that might be some good news. I can go after that. Otherwise, I have a 2300 for Wells Fargo, I think like a 500 for Capital One. May or may not, have some miscellaneous things out there. But after I pay off this credit card, like, I'll have zero credit card debt. So, like, I'm like 600 bucks away, which I can have that paid off by Sunday. So I mean, I mean, I can safely say I got like 2800 in personal between the Wells Fargo and the cap. One. And then I guess I could go after the chase if,

Speaker 1  30:04
well, I would call Wells Fargo first and just ask them if they have a no hit credit limit increase. And just see what they say. A lot of them, you know, don't run your credit again, or they do a soft pull. But you have to know that up front, so just see if they do, you might be able to just get that one up to 5000 now that you've had it for a while and you've paid it down. Because, Wells Fargo. I mean, that's that's good, like, okay, yeah. And another option that's really easy is, do you have iPhone? I do, yeah. So if you get the apple card through the iPhone, they give you pretty high limit, and then you can request credit limit increases every six months. It's a no hick

Speaker 3  30:46
every time. Really, I should just do it anyways, right?

Speaker 1  30:50
So, I mean, yeah, the first one, I think, comes with a with a hard inquiry, though, the very first one, I believe, but it's been a while since I got that one, but I probably use that card more than any it's got good cash back. It's got like, a little savings thing where, you know, it just, yeah, it's, it's nice,

Speaker 3  31:09
yeah, so, but even thinking about that, it takes two years for, like, the hard inquiries to kind of like, be meaningless, right? Is that the time limit?

Unknown Speaker  31:19
Yeah, naturally, after two years.

Speaker 3  31:22
Yeah. So, I mean, would that be considered like a necessary evil? Then you got to do it. Or how many hard inquiries do you have now, nothing within the past two years that I believe?

Speaker 1  31:36
Oh, yeah. So it probably won't affect your credit at all to have one hard inquiry. If you have less than like, like four, you're good.

Speaker 3  31:45
Okay, I think the last time I even had an inquiry was sometime in 2023 so it's going on two years longer than that, probably. Okay, yeah, dude, true. Okay, that sounds cool. All right. Well, let me I'll pay off this Wells Fargo thing first, and then I would start

Speaker 1  32:03
there just see if they'll give you a credit limit increase with no hit first. You might, you might get something for free right there and not have to do anything else.

Speaker 3  32:10
Oh, cool. Okay, so 5k credit card. One 5k credit card would be what we would aim for.

Speaker 1  32:16
Or, yeah, at least that, yeah. And you know, when you when you get higher limit all together, then it makes you don't have to worry about your credit utilization as much because you have higher total limit. So it's easier to stay under that 10% rule of thumb, you know, awesome.

Unknown Speaker  32:36
Yeah, I'm sorry. Keep going. Okay.

Speaker 3  32:40
The other thing I was gonna say, though I have my with Chase, though I'm this could be also helpful, is, like, that's where I have, like, my My Business account for my Instacart and everything. I had an LC for it and everything. And that's where I have my my my paychecks and, like, all my spending. So they have my full history of everything. So that could always maybe give me some more leverage. Do you think if I were to keep going with it? Maybe? Okay, cool. All right.

Speaker 1  33:09
Wells, Fargo does do a free increase. He just did it recently.

Speaker 3  33:14
Yeah, okay, well, we'll do that, William for the wells, Fargo first and and then we'll keep going as from there. Cool. All right, cool.

Unknown Speaker  33:29
Thank you. Quick follow up question for

Speaker 1  33:33
I think patience. I think Jordan was, oh, sorry, go ahead.

Speaker 4  33:38
Oh yeah, thanks. Hey. So I was wondering, I guess brainstorming, I have found the business that I'm interested in. I've met with the seller several times over the last couple of weeks, like even been to his house and we chatted about stuff. And you and he wants to sell the business. He wants to sell the business and the real estate and all of the assets that come with it. And he wants to owner finance, because he doesn't want to take the tax hit. I need some help strategizing, some creative financing on like, how to, like, set that up. He told me 3 million I off the bat. I know that everything's negotiable. At least I believe everything is negotiable. So I've already started, like, I reached out to my realtor, and they're helping me with, like, getting some comps for the property, so we can, kind of like, or so I can kind of figure out, like, here's what the real estate would cost, here's what the business is. Worth. Here's what assets are worth. Like, there's trucks and bobcats and trailers and things like that. And so I'm just really trying to figure out, like, what's a good way to strategize? Obviously, I don't have to, well, somebody might. I don't have 3 million in the bank to do that. I could potentially good SBA loan, but then that means a huge down payment, right? And so, you know, he even brought it to me. He's like, Well, you know, like, I'd be willing to sell the business and own a finance the real estate, or sell the business and lease back the real estate, or just sell part of the real estate, like we can we, I'm open to all things like, come, come with me, some suggestions, and we can talk about them. And I don't, I feel like it's not every day you get an owner that's willing to talk about those. And so I'm just like, oh, like, what's a good way to, like, start to even lay out a plan for this.

Unknown Speaker  35:59
Well, have you seen the financials?

Speaker 4  36:03
So I've seen he's told me the financials. He said he's getting them together so he can share them with me. So I haven't seen them yet. I do know that the seller is like 81 years old, and so him and his wife are just getting too old to take care of everything. So I do know, over the past year, the financials had dropped quite a bit, just because they haven't been able to keep up like they have in years past.

Speaker 1  36:33
Okay. Well, I mean, in a situation like this, you want because the real estate may be up for grabs, or it might not be you want to vet each one separately. So you're going to want to evaluate the business on its own to see what the business is worth on its own, then use those comps to see what the real estate's worth and make sure that you know those two things together make sense. What kind of down payment could you bring? Does? Did he say what he wanted for the business itself,

Speaker 4  37:02
did he Yeah, so he initially told me, for the business and the real estate and the assets, 2 million,

Unknown Speaker  37:15
and that comes with, like, two acres,

Speaker 4  37:19
and then if I, if I, if he sold everything, he would want 3 million, and that the additional would be a house and three additional acres that's on a private lake.

Speaker 1  37:30
Okay, so, but still, like, just, just the business with no real estate at all, did he say

Speaker 4  37:41
he didn't say he and that's where he approached me and said to me, like, come at me with some options, like, I'd be willing to sell the business and, like, lease back the real estate to you.

Unknown Speaker  37:56
Okay, well, I mean, what, what kind of

Speaker 1  38:00
down payment. Could you bring? Is it even possible to get the real estate? Or would you like, Are you close to having those numbers?

Speaker 4  38:09
I mean, I could, I could bring, like, 250,000

Unknown Speaker  38:15
Okay, well, I mean,

Speaker 4  38:20
you're, I mean, that's just, that's cash without using, like, I started credit stacking before I found you and so, like, if I was starting liquidating some of that, like, I could probably come up with an extra 100,000

Unknown Speaker  38:33
so you could bring the 10%

Unknown Speaker  38:35
for the 3 million,

Unknown Speaker  38:38
probably pretty close to it, okay,

Speaker 1  38:40
but that house and that lake, I mean, that would be something that you would just move that's a personal home that you would live in, right? It's not are you interested?

Speaker 4  38:49
Well, I mean, I would be, because the way it's all possible together, it would just make sense. He, the way he has it set up now, is the business owns that house, and the as him as an employee, like, that's part of his salary is living in that that house. So it's like, in the like job description that he has set up.

Speaker 1  39:17
Okay, so then it's a huge tax benefit, right yeah, okay. Well, I mean, I don't know that's a tough one. I mean, you would just have to think about all different flavors of that deal, from the bare minimum, no real estate, nothing, just getting the business all the way up to the, you know, the full meal deal of everything. But you you can't really strategize until you know the numbers, because you have to find out what that business is worth and what it can sustain. As far as you know, what, what will that cash flow support? As far as the debt goes, with that guy being in his early 80s, he's probably going to want, like, a five year. Or seller finance term, more than likely. So you have to think about that too, because, you know, if I'm 81 I probably don't want to do 10 to 15 years because, you know you're, you're getting those guaranteed.

Speaker 4  40:17
Yeah, no, I was thinking about that. I mean, the guy, I mean, like, when I like, he's met my kids, my wife and like, fell in love with them, and so like, I feel like, like I've tried, I've started building this like relationship with them. And even like, he's to the point where he's even, like, giving me a couple of jobs that he would normally take, but he's just got to give them to me. So I feel like that we've started building a good relationship. So I definitely don't want to insult him, but I also think that, like he, he's like, the real estate is is easily worth the 3 million. Like my realtor is saying that she thinks that that house and the three acres is probably worth like, 2 million by itself. I mean, like, right beside it there's mansions that are there's like two mansions that have just got built that are comped at like 2.5 million. Okay, so she's like, you know, if the business fails, you can develop you could pare this all down and build houses, three houses, and make your money back or sell to developer, right? So, so, yeah, that's kind of where I'm at, the real estate. I'm like, Man, this is a great deal. But then I'm also like, I need, like, to have a payment on a $3 million loan. That's a lot of money to be making to pay back.

Speaker 1  41:39
Yeah, yeah. And that's why you need the so you need more information before you can even start thinking about structuring a deal. You can think about all the possibilities right now, but you need the financial for that business so you know what it can sustain. You need the comps for the real estate so you know if it's fairly priced, and you know what it's actually worth because you can, you know, you could do a seller finance thing, and it might be a great deal with seller financing. It's less about the price you pay and more about the terms. You know, like you can, you can make a deal that is the

Unknown Speaker  42:22
is, the price is $100,000

Speaker 1  42:25
but you have to pay, you know, every year for the rest of your life, or something you know, you can, you can take a good deal and turn it bad by the terms you know, could be a million dollar loan, but you have to pay it off in a year. Something like that just doesn't make sense. Like so if that real estate is worth 2 million, and, you know, it's a really good deal, he just doesn't realize what he has, it might be better to go the SBA route or to go, you know, with a traditional bank and just completely clean sweep it and but it just depends. So you need those two things first before you can even think about taking options to him. You need to know what the business is worth, like with those financials, and you know what the real estate's worth first, then you can start strategizing. Until then you just kind of, you know you're you're throwing

Speaker 4  43:16
darts and got got you and so what if I did like I know SBA has some new requirements around owner financing things like that. So right, SBA? Like, if you owner finance down payment for SBA, they had, they can't get paid until the SBA loan is paid off. Is that correct?

Speaker 1  43:35
Yeah, they they have to be able to carry that debt until the whole life of the loan.

Speaker 4  43:42
So if that's 20 years, it's probably

Speaker 1  43:45
going to be 25 or 30 to get your payments down. So it's probably not going to be something they're going to want to do.

Speaker 4  43:55
Gotcha? Yeah? Okay, yeah. No, that's what I was that's where I was thinking. And so I was, like, really trying to figure that out, and that makes sense. Like, if he doesn't, if he wants a three year, you know, wants to carry the note for three years, that's gonna be really hard, which I guess, at the end of the day, like, you could potentially refinance, right?

Speaker 1  44:18
Yeah, you can refinance. There's a lot of things you can do too. Like, if you're you can just get the business and having the purchase agreement the right of first refusal if they sell the home, if they you know if they're going to sell the additional land. Like, there's so many options you can put in there to just get them out from under the business itself. And then you take over and give give yourself a little time to grow the business and figure out what you're going to do with it, and maybe you don't want that additional and maybe you want to keep it lean and make the most money you can off of a lower leverage position. So, but there's a it's endless. I mean,

Speaker 4  44:59
okay, yeah, I do. Even thought about first rider refusal. That's, yeah, so that's, that's good, because I could potentially, I mean, I would like to keep my cash for operating. I mean, it's a, it's a Plant Nursery and Landscape company, so, like, obviously there's going to be some inventory and stuff like that that you have to, like, hold on to and paying employees and stuff like that. So, yeah, if I could keep cash for operating that would be great working from though now,

Speaker 1  45:30
yeah, so baby steps, first get that information, and then, and then go from there. So hopefully, yeah, I would just work on getting that this week and then come back Thursday and we'll see if we can.

Speaker 4  45:42
Yeah, well, I won't be, it'll be not this Thursday, next Thursday. I'm a little worried, just because, I mean, he was honest with me, like, now the tax returns aren't gonna show everything on there. And I'm like, like, I was like, unfortunately I didn't tell him that. But I'm thinking to myself, like, well, it is what it is. If the tax returns say you only made so much and your business is not worth as much as you may think it's worth.

Speaker 1  46:08
So, yep, and that's so common, you know, he's already pretty smart on his taxes. If he's got the business owning his house, and it's part of his salary to live there and all that stuff

Speaker 4  46:19
like, I mean, the dude is a multi millionaire, like, he's not hurting for money, so I think his big thing is, like, there's a bunch of development around happening. And he's like, I don't want to see this get turned into houses. I want this to his business. I mean, he's been in business for 55 years, so he's like, I want this to stay in nursery, and so I think I have a little bit of leverage there, but we'll see. Sounds

Unknown Speaker  46:49
like you. Thanks for that hidden gym, though,

Unknown Speaker  46:55
pretty exciting.

Unknown Speaker  47:01
Patience. Did you have another question?

Unknown Speaker  47:04
Yeah, I was,

Speaker 2  47:08
I was, I think I asked this some time ago, but I don't know how it applies this time around. I believe maybe the banker will know better, like for for business purchases do, do life insurance like, you know, does? I'm not sure if it's the term one or which kind of insurance do those life insurance do they come towards, like assets when you want to purchase a business, would they?

Speaker 1  47:44
Would they depending on the type of of life insurance, it can count towards net worth. It depends. It depends on what you have. I would, I would mention that to the banker, though, for sure. Okay, take your policy information with you. Okay, it may help. Some banks have net worth requirements for commercial loans too. That's why a lot of times people, if they don't own their own home, will run into an obstacle with certain banks, because they want to see a certain amount of net worth.

Unknown Speaker  48:16
Okay? Thank you. Mm, you,

Unknown Speaker  48:27
anybody else have any questions

Speaker 5  48:33
I have, is it true that recently, I think I saw on Tiktok, someone mentioned that now SBA requires you to have life insurance policy, and you have to, like, include them as a like a beneficiary. So is it a new, something new, or

Speaker 1  48:51
I didn't used to be like that? So I if they have changed it, it's possible. I know, I know a lot of times banks will require, if you're over a certain age, for you to have life insurance on a large loan. But yeah, I don't know. I haven't heard that. If they did change it, I'd be shocked if they changed it in the last three to four weeks, because everything's been shut down. But yeah,

Speaker 5  49:22
maybe starting from the July 1 right, or June 1, right, the new changes they implemented, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  49:30
it's, yeah, I have not heard that, but

Unknown Speaker  49:35
that's, that's possible.

Speaker 1  49:38
I mean, just anytime you get a loan, though, you have to get different layers of insurance for your inventory and for liability, and you know, just like with a mortgage, you know, it just, or with a car, you know, you have to show proof of insurance, or they'll come repossess your car. So it makes sense. I just, I have not personally had. To do that, but I haven't gotten an SBA loan in years, so I don't know it's very possible with all the other sweeping changes. It it makes sense.

Unknown Speaker  50:17
I'm gonna look into that, though that's that's a great question. I

Unknown Speaker  50:32
anybody else have any questions?

Speaker 3  50:41
Nobody? I don't have a question, but I do have reiterate what I said last week or week before. But like, I approached another business owner this week, like a landscaper, it is so much easier to, like, talk to people in person. And you know, I know biz by sale has been successful for you, and maybe some others, this and that. But like, I've approached, I don't know. I mean, I right now have six landscapers that said they want to sell like, and so I'm still building that list and hoping to do like, an M and A type of a thing. But I mean, I mean, like, it's almost like seven out of 10 people that I talked to. It seems like it's a high measure of people, whereas, you know, I probably have sent out, you know, conservatively, we'll just say 50 messages on biz, buy, sell, when it's probably more like 75 or more, only to get like, one response. But it's just so much easier just to talk to a business owner in person, and, you know, any kind of store, and you know, I'll even walk into, like, just a store, like a jewelry store or whatever is nearby, just walk in, just hanging out, and then it's the owners is hanging out. It's just like the owners are right there, like, you know, so, I mean, there's a good chance to speak to an owner and have a great conversation in person, if you just make that drive to the store, wherever you want to go. But just any advice that, from my experience, is like, when you see people out there, just go talk to them, because it's, chances are it might be the owner, you know, like lots of good responses. So you're not limited to just biz by sell. Like there's business owners everywhere, and they're super cool and laid back and down to earth. And you know, you'd be surprised at how easy it is to talk to them.

Unknown Speaker  52:29
Yeah, a lot of business owners want to sell. They just don't

Unknown Speaker  52:32
know how to do it. Yeah, absolutely. The

Speaker 1  52:35
problem that I usually get with talking to the owners directly before they've done the research is they want too much. They think the business is worth more than it actually is, you know, because you they put so much work into it, and they think, yeah, this thing's worth a million bucks, and it's really like 200,000 you know, just because they don't know any better, they just assume. So that's, that's pretty common, but yeah, I mean, it's like driving for dollars. It's the same thing, if you can find something off market from someone who's ready to sell, that you don't have to compete with anybody. That's the ideal situation, just like with Jordan and the you know, the nursery. Same thing you know, talking to the owner directly, building a rapport. That's how most deals are still made these days, even, even through biz by sell. Like your whole point of biz, buy, sell is to just get in there and to talk to the owner at some point. Once you can get to that owner, and you're doing the same thing that you're just when you reach out to them personally, you're cutting through all that junk and getting right to it. So yeah, it's great. I totally agree. I've I ran into some really cool owners. One, one lady, I felt so, so bad for her, because she just had a failing business and I didn't see any future in it. It was kind of a retail situation. It was like Catholic, almost like, pair, like, I don't even know, like, what you would call like supplies, like candles and books and prayer things and pamphlets and beads and stuff. But she didn't have an internet presence. It was like a little kind of rundown store that had been consistently losing money for years, and I felt, you know, she wanted to sell it. She was great. She was super nice, but it just didn't work out, because it's not something I wanted to be in. But those people are on in every downtown, in every city in America, there's those business owners that if you can just get to them and give them the right offer at the right time, you can jump ahead of the line. I totally agree. Joe.

Unknown Speaker  54:51
Okay, anybody else?

Unknown Speaker  54:59
No, okay. Guys, let me shut this down. I'm.
