Speaker 1  00:00
Are you thinking about buying a home, but are waiting for the rates to drop? If so, you need to watch this video. So if you're thinking about buying your first home, or you currently own a home and are thinking about moving to a different home, but are waiting for the rates to get to the fours or to the threes, then I think you're making a mistake, and here's why. For one thing, if the rates do get down into the threes, that means the economy has tanked. That means that there are some some issues going on with the economy that has forced the Fed to lower the rates to a point to push the mortgage rates to three, and you might not be as stable as you think when that time comes. The second reason is, right now it's a buyer's market, so that means that you can go Shop for a home and you find one that you like, and you can offer asking price or below, and you're more likely to get actually accepted on that offer. If you remember a couple of years ago when it was a seller's market, you had to offer 10% above asking price, and then maybe you would get into the discussion, and you'd be competing against multiple other offers. It's not like that right now, because so many people are waiting for the rates to drop. And if you are waiting for those rates to drop, say they get to low fives or fours, what's going to happen is all these people that are waiting on the sidelines to buy a house, they're going to rush into the market. And when that happens again, it becomes a seller's market. So the property values are going to artificially inflate. You're going to be competing against a bunch of other buyers, and it's going to be really difficult to get an offer accepted. So what's wrong with right now? The rates aren't crazy high. They're well off their highs from the summer, and it's a buyer's market, so if you find a house that you like, there's no reason why you can't go ahead and make an offer on it now, and you can even make a low offer and just see what happens, because right now is never going to come back again. We might look back on this time and think, wow, I wish rates were in the sevens, because in the 80s, they were upwards of 15% and people were still buying homes. So if rates do go down, say you buy a house right now, and rates do end up going down, if they go down to the force, awesome, refinance, you're doing good. Your property value has probably gone up. You refinance, you get a lower payment. So just question yourself why you're waiting on the sidelines. If you're ready to make a move for a house, why not? You.
